Ladies and Gentlemen, Teachers and Students
I wish to impart upon you a story that I have never told anyone
before, something that no one knows or ever expected. During
my time here on Earth I once read that to properly tell a story
you have to start at the beginning. Though this story begins long
before the first living creature stepped onto land, long before the
celestial bodies that decorated the night sky existed, this story
begins at the start of everything.
Though was I to tell this story from the beginning, it would take
more time than is currently available to me and would also
extend well past the life of your average human. Therefore I will
skip ahead to a more fitting location to start this Tale.
Ten Thousand years ago I was born in a distant star system, on a
luscious and bountiful planet called Arakis. To you my
birthplace would seem like a paradise of sorts. For on Arakis
there was neither strife, nor violence and all who lived there,
lived in harmony. There was plentiful food and water for
everyone, every basic necessity was cared for without fail on
Arakis.
For all Arakis had to offer was only the ability to live. It was a
world where I did not have to fear for my future, because all my
basic needs were cared for. The longer I spent there the more I
learned to see Arakis for what it truly was; Arakis was a world
without any luxury or creativity beyond that of basic survival.
Arakis was a paradise built for animals, but I have always
craved for something more, such as a purpose. And Arakis was a
desert world devoid of meaning. I wanted more than just the
bare necessities, so I left behind Arakis in search of a purpose
beyond simply existing, and set off to travel the vast expanse of
the universe.
I had no idea what I was looking for, and to this day I still do not
know. I only hope that my struggles bring me closer to my goal.
In my Travels I would come across thousands of planets each
one so vastly different from each other, but all missing what I
sought. So I drifted aimlessly, galaxy to galaxy, Solar System to
Solar System, and Planet to Planet, until eventually I came to
Earth.
1
When I first came to Earth it looked just like many of the other
thousands of worlds that I had visited. It looked like another
rock with creatures, that run around and reproduce, and then die.
Oh how I was wrong though, for what set Earth apart from the
other planets was Humanity. Humanity was so similar, and yet
entirely different, to those living on Arakis. It was this Initial
similarity of humanity that first peaked my interest, but it was
the differences that kept me here.
I watched Earth from afar; I watched history unfold before me, I
watched empires rise and fall, but ultimately through it all
humanity continued to fascinate me. I was fascinated with every
aspect of humanity, from their philosophies to their mathematics
and I enjoyed it all.
All be it in my time observing I also witnessed the flaws of
humanity such as their ability to commit acts of injustice against
one another. As I watched I began to ask myself the question:
what is a man, how do they live, for what do they live? These
questions lit a fire in me, and I knew then that I must go out and
find the answers.
2
For the past Eight-teen years I have lived amongst humanity.
During my time on Earth I have learned a great many things,
such as the value of different ideas and cultures along with the
geographical location of Bhutan. During my time here in the
United States I have learned the values and importance of being
in a community.
My time in Texas came with learning how to overcome
obstacles that I may encounter in my future travels. My time at
TMI has taught me that the least popular or most disliked colors
of the students are Orange and Yellow while Blue is TMI’s
favorite color. And you thought that the random color survey I
sent to everyone last year had no purpose!
My Friends and Family have all taught me countless lessons that
just like the story of the universe would be too long to retell.
While I have yet to find the answers to all of my questions, I
have found myself a new home that has helped give my life
meaning and purpose, which is something that Arakis could not
give me.
3
Now, to many of you, this story about a cosmic traveller from an
alien world may sound outlandish and impossible. And perhaps
it is fictional. But then again, perhaps not. And yet, there is a
purpose for everything I have said today: I challenge you who
are aimless to leave behind the worlds you have known, and
grown accustomed to.
I urge you to seek out a sense of purpose and a greater vision for
your life. In the words of science fiction writer Gene
Roddenberry: Your mission is “To explore strange new worlds.
To seek out new life and new civilizations. To boldly go where
no person has gone before!”
4