I am an optimist. I like to look on the bright side of things whenever I can. Whenever I am down I reset my thoughts by saying “it is what it is” and look for solutions. Now, this last year tended to be a very “It is what it is” kind of year, but I found that that is the exact thing I needed to say. With little control over our current situation I tried to make the best of the worst conditions. I worked to have fun and enjoy my junior year and make it my best year yet. And with my new attitude and new friends I had the time of my life. To give you an idea of what was upcoming for me I will give you the general overview. I was going to C dorm as the prefect that year. For me, C was like a Found family comedy like Friends or How I Met your Mother in which the cast would always get into some sort of crazy scenario and end up closer because of it. Because of this I will set the cast and stage so you can see from my point of view. Coming with me were two sophomores (Ryan and Flint), another junior (Matthew), and our one senior, (Joey) who was in C dorm previous years.  We all lived in C and it was one of the older dorms that had lots of faults that weren’t present in the new dorms. But no matter its faults and issues, C dorm made up for it in character and memories. Now that you have the general overview, let's begin. Despite having to go through quarantine before, I did not realize the extent to which quarantine meant in the dorms. Although I and the other Junior Matthew had cars, we were not allowed to leave at all. In fact, visits outside of our dorm became much more of a hassle because each house was declared its own “unit” and had to stick with their own. Now I am not saying that these rules were unjust, but they did make everything more - difficult. To start, our food situation wasn’t ideal. We would have food dropped off in our common room for us for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and the only constant was the poor quality food. We had the saddest chicken for breakfast and lunch most every day with equally awful dinners. But we knew that the quality wouldn’t change on its own so we took up the challenge to fix it. Armed with a hot plate and a simple Chef’s Knife, our master chef Flint would take control of the kitchen. At first it started by recooking the pork in the pork tacos and adding spices and other toppings, but it soon evolved to his specialty Chicken Sandwich. He would sear the chicken with a hot plate to give it a solid crust and he would make his own cane’s sauce. Combined with some toasted bread and smuggled vegetables, we are left with a pleasant sandwich.  We would do this for nearly every meal that we could fix as even though we couldn’t do much, we did what we could with what we were dealt. But not every meal could be fixed. Enter the enchiladas verdes. Although ideas popped up about a potential solution, we realized that some things can’t be fixed. And although nothing could directly fix it, we had prepared for this as we knew that somethings must start anew. Beforehand we went to the store and bought some steak, spinach, and other ingredients for our meal. With our three New York Strips in the freezer and hot plate on, with supervision, we started our feast. Accompanied by the delicate comedy of Southpark and by each other, we were happy. It didn’t matter that we were stuck or why we were stuck, we were happy. This “it is what it is” outlook soon spread to every aspect of our lives. We realized that we may not have had our conventional resources, but we had what we had. We had a group of very different people with various backgrounds and personalities and a Computer and occasional trips to target. So we did what we could with what we had. After classes in online school, we would often go out to the hall and stretch so then we could sit down and watch Southpark or some trash show on the History network. When we had classes together we would go outside and sit with one another. No more Friday movie trips? No problem! We set up our own movie night watching all sorts of movies like Parasite and Bruno. We then added game night playing Dark Souls, Smash Bros., and Undertale. We then ventured into horror games like Dead Space 3 and DDLC. This then led to each of us leading our own journeys. Joey would bring us deep into the Chinese version of Youtube being our tour guide to all the inside jokes. Matthew would lead us on our dorm repair with his janky ideas of “fixed” like paper shadings for hallway lights and a shower curtain as a doorway. The aforementioned Flint would contrast my optimism with his pessimism, cook, and show us his favorite absurdist Australian comedians. And Ryan would sit in his room and do Math homework. Meanwhile I was there watching it all and “supervising” where needed and egging on when I saw the opportunities for a stable level of chaos. Hair cuts? Well we got a $40 razer from Target and five boys giving their ideas of what looks “right”. No more going out for events? Well we have two full water bottles, cardboard boxes, and a hallway so we made a crude one on one bowling game. Every problem we faced we kept our chin up and figured out a solution or workaround. However, there is one problem I couldn’t fix. One Catastrophe that we can’t wait out. The Freeze. Through the night the snow gathered and gathered, and when we awoke it was piled up to amounts TMI hadn’t seen for some time. We had the privilege to see TMI under all that snow and it was amazing. My dorm all ventured out into the snow and we went as far as the lacrosse field. Although I complained of the temperature and my fingers freezing off for the whole time, I enjoyed it and thought it would be another memory dedicated to C Dorm. But when we got back, everything got worse. Our power went out and the temperature started going down. The apartment was below freezing and the common room was about 45 degrees. Although the option of going to a newer dorm was presented, we stuck together and bundled up in the common room watching a show on a laptop, weathering the storm. Spirits were still high despite the fact that temperature was low. We were dealing with our problems as well as we could while keeping a positive outlook but then everything came falling down, literally. We soon got told to evacuate the building as a portion of one of the other old dorms had collapsed along with the ceramics building due to freezing pipes and water troubles. But no matter the issue, we had to get out. All I could take was my backpack with my laptop and a few sets of clothes. We evacuated to Ewing, one of the relatively newer dorms, and set down our stuff. Once we settled in and calmed down, we were ready to assess our situation. Suddenly, a pipe burst right outside our room in the hallway. I grabbed my bags once more as water was filling the room and moved to Abbot this time. To say my optimism was still at 100% would be lying. I was on the verge of freaking out, keeping my composure just till I was alone. But to my surprise, Flint, our local pessimist, was doing what I couldn't. He remembered our backup steak that we had marinating in the C Freezer and started cooking it outside. He knew that everything was finally going the pessimistic route where nothing went right, but he made the best of the situation. He was standing outside in the below freezing weather and handing out pieces of our rainy day meal to whoever needed it. And then I realized how important this mindset is. Maybe Flint was just coping in his own way and doing what he was good at and enjoyed, but more to my point he knew what would make anything better. He acted in a way that improved all of our situations even if it wasn’t much. He did what he could and that is more than I can say for myself. With the snow melting and being able to return to my home in South Texas I had time to think about the situation. Time passed and I returned to Abbot after Spring break. With Ewing fixed, the Ewing kids could go back to their dorm, but the same could not be said for C dorm. My precious dorm was unsalvageable with water problems being found in the main dorm and more urgent water concerns in Dr. Leport’s apartment. Of course I was devastated but I knew that nothing could be done to save the building. I saw that we had the same people and the same opportunities for goofing off but still it was hard to lose such an important figure for us. As of my last quarter of Junior year, I am still in Abbot. We have grieved and are forced to face that it is what it is. My dorm is now an empty lot and some of us even got to observe it’s demolition. Our community had moved to Abbot but it wasn’t the same and nothing we could do would make it the same. We had caught lightning in a bottle and now it was gone. We still honor the dorm with each of us taking our own keepsakes of C dorm. I claimed a non working clock with algebra instead of numbers and a fire alarm. Others took photos and their own piece of the building. I even printed some vinyl stickers that say “mini C” to put on our dorm. Despite all this, we have recovered what we could. We aren’t the same group, but when Dr. Leport comes for dinner, we all sit around as a Dorm once again to chat and banter. We started to pick ourselves up again and returned to our mindset of “it is what it is” and started doing what we could to stay together. We go get fastfood and tailgate. We eat together during lunch and during all of our outings. There is still a bond that can’t be broken by a freeze. Now after all of this sorrow I recognize how important that attitude is. We could have gotten brought down by the pandemic and everyone that goes with it, the boredom, the loneliness, the sameness of everything, but we lasted. Our attitude of gratitude kept us upbeat and led to some of the best memories I have ever had. Poker nights while watching every single Twilight movie and the stupid mind games that came with it. Playing with the VR and cracking jokes while someone was cutting bullets in slow mo. Our showing of Parasite got too popular and had to be interrupted because too many of the other dormers were watching with us instead of going to community night. Even the times when I would have to climb a window or crouch down in a too small shower feel nostalgic because of my attitude. No matter the problem, our attitude made it better. We said “it is what it is” and got through everything and forged a bond that will last and be remembered. Whenever you face hardships, think back to what you can do to make your situation better. And if you need a starting point, I will tell you of the knowledge passed on to me by Joey, our oldest and wisest roommate. Putting dinosaur stickers on everything makes the world a bit better. Thank You.  
Throughout my life, I have been given many different names. These include “little Kyle”, “the youngest Kyle”, “the last of the Kyles”, “the baby of the family”. I have even been called “pipsqueak”, a name first given to me by my aunt, but then so lovingly adopted by my oldest brother, more based on the fact that I am the shortest out of my siblings than the youngest, but a name that I have been referred to as nonetheless. The majority of my life has been based on my three older siblings. I have gone to the same schools as them, taken the same classes, played the same sports, and tried all of the same hobbies. This led me to being a very annoying little sister, which I have unfortunately always been aware of thanks to one of my brothers. For the most part though, my siblings have been very accepting of my constant desire to tag along and ask incessant questions, even when seeking their acceptance has led to major regret and quite a bit of crying. As a kid I would get scared very easily. That’s not to say that I don't anymore, but it is not nearly as bad as having nightmares about the movies Jaws and Gremlins for months after watching them. My sister was forced to deal with my constant paranoia before falling asleep every night during those periods considering we shared a bedroom for the majority of my life. However, I was always convinced that I would be able to make it through the same scary things as the rest of my family. Hence why when my parents brought up the idea of going to the haunted house, "The Nightmare on Elm Street," I attempted to convince everyone else of my bravery. Keep in mind, I was eight. There was no sign that I would be able to successfully make it through a haunted house. I could barely even handle playing "Call of Duty'' because I got startled by other players coming around a corner in front of me. Despite this, I had far too much faith in myself. My siblings knew better. They remembered my fear more clearly than I had, but I insisted that this time it would somehow be different. I am still unsure why anyone thought to even consider letting four children into a haunted house like that. Given that there are at least ratings on movies, I would have expected some sort of age limit, preferably one that was higher than eight. For some reason though, my parents caved in and bought the tickets. It was possibly thanks to what I would like to call my “youngest child charm,” also known as annoying my entire family and begging until my parents said okay. Throughout the time leading up to our trip, I continued to convince myself of how brave I was going to be. I rehearsed methods of how to get past each room involving remembering that each of the monsters was just a regular person determined to make their customers feel immensely uncomfortable, a truly wonderful job description. I had no idea what to expect from this experience though because the closest that I had come to a haunted house was the Phineas and Ferb Halloween special where they build a giant haunted house to cure Isabella’s hiccups. Needless to say, my expectations for how scary it would be were very low. There was no need to think about all of the times that I had failed to watch a semi-scary movie without covering my eyes or plugging my ears at certain points. Those were all two dimensional as well, which is completely different from an in-person experience that would definitely not be more immersive, and realistic, and terrifying. The point is that I am almost certain that I had subconsciously blocked any movie that gave me nightmares as a kid from my memory so as to convince myself that I would be prepared for what was to come. On the day that we were supposed to finally go to “The Nightmare on Elm Street” I was excited to be able to prove myself to my siblings. They could no longer make fun of me for getting frightened far too easily because I would have endured the same terrors as they had. But when the site of the attraction came into view, my confidence began to dwindle. From what I remember, the building towered over the crowds of people waiting in lines to meet their doom. Every crack and chip in the rickety, old home was illuminated by an ominous, red glow. The entrance was clouded by a thick fog, and as we moved closer I could hear the eerie music grow louder and louder in my ears along with my quickened heartbeat.  While we joined the line to venture inside, the building loomed before me. It threatened my new reputation that I was building. I could not let a measly haunted house take me down, so I stood as tall as my eight year old frame would allow and plastered a smile onto my face. As we approached the entrance, the realization of my mistake flooded into my head. My siblings knew better. I was completely unprepared, and yet I could not bring myself to admit my defeat just yet. I clutched my parents as any anxious child would do while entering a new mildly terrifying environment. It was dark. The scent of artificial fog filled my nostrils, and before I knew it, the sudden crashes and bangs coupled with seemingly ten foot tall monsters jumping towards me out of the shadows broke down every ounce of strength I had in me. I immediately began to shriek, and cry, and bury my face in my mom’s shirt to avoid moving forward. I am not  proud of that reaction, but I would personally say that it is completely justifiable considering my age at the time. The rest of the haunted house was a blur thanks to the pure fear that I was feeling, but I do remember my family trying to protect me from the actors that were simply doing their job as we hurried towards the exit. When we finally emerged into the street that we entered from, tears were streaming down my face. I had cut our experience there short, but no one seemed angry or disappointed. Rather, my siblings comforted me with the fact that nothing would be jumping out and grabbing at me for the rest of the night. I was assured that I was safe and would soon be back in our car, and eventually wrapped up in my bed a few feet from my sister. Before our night came to a close, we collectively decided that the best plan of action would be to stop at Baskin Robbins to help soothe the emotional damage. My face was still hot from embarrassment and fear while dragging my feet towards the case to browse my options, and yet, swept up in the endless flavor options, I momentarily forgot the horrors that I had just experienced. I tasted a couple delightful flavors before making my final decision. I ate my ice cream slowly, both because I decided to use the tiny tasting spoon from earlier and because I still felt weighed down by the guilt that I was the main reason my siblings were forced to rush through the haunted house’s thrills. After all, they were able to predict the outcome before my parents had even bought the tickets, yet they put my feelings above their own. I won’t lie, the ice cream helped quite a bit. It usually does. However, my siblings also helped even though they could have easily ignored me for the rest of the night or blamed me for an unsatisfactory experience at their first real haunted house. When I look back past all of our complaining about each other, My siblings have spent quite a bit of time helping me when I asked for it. Some have been more useful and kind about it than others, but they each have their moments. They have dealt with my stubbornness when I don’t understand homework despite likely wanting to yell at me and leave me to struggle on my own. They’re all willing to answer my questions about past experiences in classes no matter how many times I go back to interrupt whatever they were doing. We do not talk with each other a lot, even when we are all home, but I appreciate the fact that they are all still willing to have conversations with me when I am struggling to figure out my plans. This takes a level of empathy that I feel needs to be included in my aspirations to be like all of them. The fact that we have all had so many of the same experiences means that they understand my feelings better than most others. I will always be “little Kyle” to those that knew my siblings before meeting me, but I do not mind this comparison nearly as much as I used to make it seem like I did. I still want to paint and draw as well as my sister. I still want to have as clear of an idea for my future as my oldest brother. I still want to be as strong as my other brother. They each have many admirable 
I was 13 years old when my father decided to walk out of my life. If I am being honest, he had left my family long before he physically walked out the door. You learn quickly when bad things like this happen, it is either learn to cope or decide to cave. When my father left I think I did both. Facing the music of my reality, there was a lot of crying and letting little things get to me. Luckily, I like roller coasters so this ride of emotion called “cold reality” was starting to hit home. In today’s world, “coping” is an often used buzzword but I don’t think most of us grasp the true meaning of “coping.”  For those who don’t know what coping is let me give you the dictionary definition:   “to deal effectively with something difficult.” True coping requires more than just “dealing” with it, you need to do it effectively and it became clear pretty quickly I didn’t understand that part of it. ​To “cope” with his leaving I turned to video games and sleeping. When I played games it took me to a different world, a world where I did not have to deal with the thoughts and feelings I had about my situation at hand. However, because of this, my grades reflected this unhealthy coping method. My grades were dropping and the mask I put on at school was starting to slip off. Sadly I didn’t make any changes and my future is affected because of my inability to realize that I was not really coping. Yes, video games are fun and made me feel better, but all it was doing was keeping me occupied until I turned the video games off and those thoughts and feelings I thought I was handling reared their ugly head again. It became clear I was only escaping what I needed to face. Another mechanism I thought was coping was just avoiding anything that had to do with my father. It seemed easier than trying to explain our strange and new family dynamic.  As terrible as it seemed for this to happen 3 days before Thanksgiving, I was kind of thankful it surrounded a holiday because I didn’t have to see anyone. I didn’t have to explain I wasn’t with my parents or why my mom was so sad or why I didn’t want to get out of bed.   Even now, anytime I have a conversation with him as the topic I get physically uncomfortable and I feel sick. I am a work in progress. Healthy coping is when there is a positive outcome and you have positive relationships. I put on a facade so I wouldn’t have to talk about it, to anyone. As it turns out, that wasn’t coping, that was avoidance.  I was struggling in school; I wasn’t progressing in the Corps; and I was separating myself from my friends.  Then we had a Pandemic.  Each of us has a “Covid” story.  Covid was in some way a great outlet for me because it allowed me to further isolate.  School as we knew it ended.  The world shut down but no one understood my world had already closed its borders.  School finally “resumed” virtually but Zoom classes were not my friend.  It turns out, even an introvert needs people. It was still easier for me to hide. I did not excel.  I failed to turn in assignments I had actually completed.  I took naps during lunch instead of eating and was frequently late for class.  At one point, one of my teachers finally realized something was off because I had failed to turn on my camera after being asked many times. I did not want to be seen.  Luckily, he held me accountable and I couldn’t hide anymore.  In hindsight, it was a gift, but I still failed to communicate my circumstances. I knew I wasn’t the only person at TMI to experience divorce.  Although, I can say, my circumstances were like a script for a tragic movie.  While other kids of divorce were juggling life and seeing parents on alternate weekends, and how to navigate holidays, I was trying to steer my way through my father calling the police because I did not want to go with him. There still wasn’t a clear gauge of how to cope. There’s not enough time to explain everything my mom and I endured but it seemed too far surpass what the majority of my peers faced with divorce. At one point my mom finally said, “Everyone has struggles,” and if you know my mom, it’s easy to envision what that sounded like.  It wasn’t minimizing my sadness but it reminded me that I wasn’t alone.  My circumstances may have been unique but struggling wasn’t specific to me.  There it was again, the theme:  cope or cave.  Caving obviously wasn’t working. That summer I read a book by Mark Manson with a questionable title but a perfect message:  “Don’t hope for a life without problems…There’s no such thing. Instead, hope for a life full of good problems.” ​My problem still wasn’t “good” but it was manageable.  Somewhere in the midst of all my struggles, my life began to change into something positive.  My mom met a man who made us a family again.  I call him “Step-Doug.”  My world changed from, “I was 13 when my father walked out of my life,” to “I was 14 when I met my dad.” Step-Doug said to me early on, “Stick with me kid, I’ll give you a better life.”  Sure, I still had problems but they were better problems. ​There is a lot I learned from my situation and how we really need to help others and cope.  Firstly, don’t assume you know someone’s narrative.  Not everyone knows how to express their trauma or how to cope with it.  For those that thought I was failing, every day I made it to school, I had already climbed out of a hole to get here.   In the words of Mark Manson, “You can’t be an important and life-changing presence for some people without also being a joke and an embarrassment to others.” I may have seemed like the latter to some but I would eventually find myself again.  And if something seems off with someone, simply ask, “are you ok?,” because it could make a world of difference. Coping is to “deal effectively with something difficult.”  I am still learning how to put this into action but each day is a new opportunity.  We are all artists of our own stress and anxiety and sometimes the piece we keep picking up we’re simply putting in the wrong place.  I learned recently that the motto and my mom’s family crest is:  Dum Spiro Spero which means, “while I breathe I hope.”  Never give up hope. 
Life is like a beast, always moving, changing, and growing, but it will devour you if you don’t keep up with it. An interpretation of Charles Darwin once said, “It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is most adaptable to change.” Let me say that again, it is not the strongest or smartest who survive, but those who can adapt.  We all have this in common, at some point we will all have to face adversity in some form or another. In this interpretation, survivors don’t power through it or outthink it, they adapt to it to win.  We all wish there was some way to hit the pause button on life and maybe even a cheat code around the hardest parts, but they don’t exist. There is no way to stop life from going forward, no matter what someone may go through, we as people need to be able to adapt to survive. As you can probably guess, lacrosse has taught me a lot about life. If you do not know, lacrosse is a full-contact sport that requires you to drive through the defenders to get a goal.  Sometimes you dodge, sometimes you dive, and most times you get hit.  Everyone who has played lacrosse with me knows that I am known for getting hit. Hit pretty hard in fact. So hard, they gave me a nickname: Gumby. That name is not because I get hit hard though.  It’s because no matter how hard, I still get up. I do this because what is the point of staying on the ground? If I have not suffered a severe injury, why stay down? Either way, the game will go on without me and I am not helping my team if they are worried. I must be flexible toward the situation and get up. Not only will this show that I can go back into play, but it will let my teammates know that I am okay. More than that, with every hit I learn something about my competitor. While every hit will be different, each one teaches me how to adapt to their defense, their style of play, and their athletic ability. Much like life,  lacrosse will have hits that come quickly and out of nowhere. The only way to bounce back is to get up and keep playing the game. Learn from each “hit” and adapt your game, your strategy, and your life to win. I have not only learned adaptability from being hit (and, of course getting back up) on the lacrosse field, but I have also learned the importance of adaptability from times when we were losing. A great example of this is when TMI Lacrosse played against Reagan last season.  You may not know this, but last year they were a division ahead of us and favored to win. In the first half of the first quarter, they were able to score four clean goals on us. We were playing awfully. Not only could we not clear the ball, but we couldn’t even hold it on offense if we tried. The whole team was making mistakes, myself included. It was getting to the point where it would be hard to come back. I called a timeout so we could figure out what we were doing wrong, slow the game down, and find their weaknesses. The team and I took a breath and came together to see what we had learned. With this, our team was able to adapt to the circumstances.  We could adapt to the situation and overcome the problems that people had. How did that work for us?  Right off the bat, we were able to score a goal. Then on Reagan’s next offensive possession, we were able to stop them from scoring. We adapted to their style of play and got back up from that big 4 goal “hit.” This adaptation gave us what we needed to go on a non-stop scoring spree. We won that game… by a lot! When situations are looking rough the only way to fix them is to slow down, observe your surroundings, and then act upon them and adapt. Even when I was young I had to learn how to adapt. When I was about 5 years old I lived in Red Bank, New Jersey. For those of you that don’t know New Jersey, Red Bank is at the Jersey Shore.  Most days I could smell the ocean as I rode my bike to school. My brothers and I didn’t play lacrosse in New Jersey.  Our sport was racing sailboats and on weekends we were on the beach. Then, we moved to Waco Texas. [Dramatic pause here] This is before “Fixer Upper” Waco Texas. It wasn’t exactly the change of situations that I had to get used to, it was more a change of cultures. I went from sailing boats on saltwater to Mutton Busting in the Heart of Texas rodeo. Everything was somewhat different and new. Instead of finding reasons to be upset, I found ways to excel in the new environment. I put away my sailboat and took up baseball and travel team soccer.  I learned how to properly wear boots and a cowboy hat.  In short, I embraced this new culture and adapted to our new situation. This showed me the importance of being able to change to a better self. If I complained about being in Texas and away from my friends and family I would have gotten nowhere. It is simple things like this that made me learn if I am unable to be flexible with the obstacles that come my way, I will never see success. In other words, I’ve been Gumby long before I got to TMI. So you have heard about me in my life and on the playing field, however, there are plenty of examples of other people adapting to a situation and turning it into an opportunity. One great example of this is Spencer Silver. Spencer worked in a lab at 3M Corporation and was in charge of creating a strong adhesive. Try as he might, Spencer could not make his adhesive strong enough to do the job. In fact, he developed an adhesive that could be stuck to then removed from an object without even leaving a mark. That is not the definition of a strong adhesive.  Spencer had a co-worker who was in a church choir and had to make notes in his hymnal without damaging the pages. He applied some of Spencer’s failed adhesive to small pieces of paper and stuck them to the hymnal. This adaptation of Spencer’s discovery became what we now know as Post-It Notes. Spencer’s failure, when adapted to the situation, became one of the highest-grossing products produced by 3M, far from a failure. If Spencer’s colleague had not looked for a way to overcome his church hymn situation, Post-It Notes would have never been made. He looked to adapt to the situation and decided that the best thing to use was a failed adhesive from years ago. But I don’t have to tell you all about being able to adapt, do I?  You’ve all done it.  As a class, we took some big “hits” over the last year.  When we came together as Freshmen who knew we would spend half of our sophomore year at home watching each other on computer screens?  Who knew our football team would take the field this year for the first time since 2019?  Who knew it would get so cold in San Antonio that we would be without power and water for a week? But as I look out on all of you today, I am proud to report that we made it.  We learned to Zoom and maximized Google Classroom.  We melted snow for water.  We got even tighter as a class and came back together stronger than ever. In short, we adapted to these events, got up off the ground, and drove forward for the win. In what seemed like impossible situations to get out of, we were able to recover and get stronger. Nothing can stop humanity from adapting to any problem that comes our way. In life, there are going to be many challenges ahead of me and each of you. Even though it may not feel like it, we need to get ready to be adults. We will have to adapt to college, and probably many of us will be far away from home. We need to adapt to these situations to meet new people, make new friends, and learn new things. Then, after college, we need to adapt to the working world.  We need to find jobs and homes of our own. The excitement and worries that the future has in store for me are something I will learn to change with.  The world will not be easy on me, I need to change with life instead of against it. From college to jobs, to new friends, to changed relationships. The world is changing around us, are you prepared to change with it? I know you will because we have all learned to adapt. Thank you. 
Oftentimes, I believe myself to be one of the unluckiest people on Earth. While this isn’t uncommon for your average teenager, I happen to have this feeling quite frequently. As a control freak, I keep my grip on reality by attempting to limit negative outcomes while maximizing positive ones. To me, the idea of something being entirely out of my control is unnerving and frustrating. Unfortunately, no one can control everything because life inherently involves luck and chance. Often, I feel as if I always pull the short straw, and as I’ve grown, my own circumstances have continued to make life an increasingly risky game. But if given the opportunity to gain complete control over my life, I wouldn’t take it because over the past seven years, my life’s unlucky and uncontrollable situations have undoubtedly shaped me into a better person. If you don’t know me personally, I have a very tragic talent for being extremely clumsy. For me, the seemingly simple act of walking often leads to bruises and scratches. As an athlete, clumsiness-- along with a strong competitive nature-- opens up a multitude of opportunities for broken bones, twisted ankles, and pulled muscles. (As you can see right here with my broken wrist so being on this stage with stairs right in front of me is extremely scary). Since the fifth grade, I haven’t gone a year without at least one injury. Clearly, this is a bit unlucky, right? At first, I thought so too. In my book, however, those were the lucky injuries. Those were the ones I could always bounce back from. On the other hand, my unluckiest and most consistent talent, which basically defines my entire athletic career, is my unnatural and surprising ability to get a concussion in any given situation. As ridiculous as this sounds, I seriously do have an uncanny talent for getting concussions. In any contact sport, concussions are a given risk, but with girls' soccer having the second-highest concussion rate among high school sports (UPMC), my chances of getting a concussion are significantly higher. With already bad odds, I always took extra precautions to avoid injury by wearing ugly, bulky headgear: like this concussion headband (show concussion headband). Whether heading a soccer ball, hitting the ground, or even someone else’s head, this headband is supposed to provide a certain level of protection for common areas of impact. However, in my very unfortunate case, this headband provides little protection, as more often than not, soccer balls slam directly into my face instead of the headband. (Let me illustrate this phenomenon for you.) Unfortunately, even outside of soccer, my odds are not much better. Oftentimes, by simply existing, I am prone to concussions. By the end of my eighth-grade year at TMI, I had sustained multiple concussions from several activities including soccer, basketball, and surprisingly, science challenge. With my reputation and my own little gravitational force field surrounding my head, I was basically an urban legend under the constant threat of flying objects. However, there’s one occasion, which occurred on our end-of-the-year field trip, that really proves the enormity of my unluckiness. Though my memory is slightly vague, I remember my entire eighth-grade class had been on a basketball court at Mo Ranch. On one side, I was talking to a group of my friends, and on the opposite side, a group was playing with my soccer ball. Suddenly, I heard my name being called, and as I turned around, I felt the sting of my own soccer ball colliding with my face and immediately collapsed (and a huge thank you to Andy Cubriel because that was one of the funniest ways to conclude TMI middle school). Looking back at this moment, neither I or my friends know how this is statistically possible. With an entire basketball court and over fifty kids, there had to be a multitude of perfectly coordinated events in order for my soccer ball to travel untouched directly into my face. As you can see, the laws of physics are obviously conspiring against me. But despite my relatively light-hearted attitude, concussions are serious, complex injuries with a multitude of symptoms including but not limited to memory loss, headaches, nausea, depression, light sensitivity, lack of focus, and brain fog. There’s also no straightforward timeline for recovery, but it can range anywhere from a couple of days to weeks, months, or even years. However, most importantly, after any concussion, “there is a greater susceptibility to sustaining more concussions and any subsequent concussions occur more easily and often take longer to resolve” (Tator). At the beginning of my junior year, I received yet another concussion during soccer. Immediately after my head slammed into the ground, darkness blanketed my vision, and I was physically unable to open my eyes. Like clockwork, the headaches, nausea, and dizziness swept over me. However, as I laid motionless on the ground, the realization of this situation tore me apart. It was only one unlucky hit, and yet, I knew that I was about to lose everything. This final concussion meant no more soccer. Ironically, with a less than functional brain and multiple concussions already under my belt, I returned to school three days later. As a junior with four AP classes, I believed that I couldn’t lose any time on recovery. I attempted to build a facade of strength, but my post-concussion symptoms always came rushing back. I had almost every single textbook symptom. However, unlike my previous concussions, reading became an excruciating task. Before, words flowed through my mind with ease, but after my concussion, even simple assignment instructions left my brain in shambles because words, letters, and numbers physically moved around the page. But even with my inability to read, I was unwilling to rest. I had already lost soccer, and I was determined to not lose what little control I had left in my life. My confidence continued to falter, and I came to the realization that I was no longer the well-rounded, all-AP student-athlete that I used to be. Instead, I was missing homework, failing classes, and struggling to even complete a full day of school. By the end of the fall semester, I was at rock bottom. I just didn’t care anymore. Two weeks before midterms, Mr. Kountz requested to meet with me, and this brought the severity of my situation to light. With my lowest grade being a 16.32 (PAUSE LOOK UP and I’m so sorry mom and dad because I did not tell you that), I was terrified of Mr. Kountz. However, instead of berating or reprimanding me, Mr. Kountz simply asked me to be kinder to myself. He emphasized that my recovery required time and patience. Throughout the first semester, I hadn’t shown myself any compassion. I attempted to ignore my symptoms, which resulted in continuous and inevitable failure. I was extremely discouraged because I had no control over my brain and the symptoms I was experiencing. Despite believing that I was at rock bottom, Mr. Kountz still had confidence in me, and together, we created a plan to help me finish out the last few weeks of first semester without completely flunking out while also focusing on my recovery. However, my first job was to accept my brain’s new limitations and recover, and for the first time in almost four months, I actually felt hopeful again. After actually taking time to rest my brain, I felt like an entirely new person during the second semester of my junior year. I still wasn’t a perfect student, and I definitely never will be. I still have horrible habits. I procrastinate a lot, spend too much time on my phone, and forget things all the time. However, after learning to accept the new and unfortunate limitations of my brain, I learned the importance of redefining my goals. For me, this meant placing emphasis on things that I am actually passionate about such as photography, science, reading, and most unexpectedly, soccer. And for those of you wondering how I managed to convince my mother to let me even step foot on a soccer field again, this monstrosity is how (display THE HORRIBLE EVIL CONCUSSION HELMET). But by focusing on my capabilities rather than my inabilities, I’ve been able to adapt, relearn, and rediscover what truly makes me happy despite the hardships I faced last year. TMI, life is wildly unpredictable, so I urge you to look for the good in your life. Bad things are going to happen. They might make you feel luckless. They might get in the way of your goals, discourage you, and even make you unhappy. But learn to accept it, move on, grow, reorient, and try not to get hit in the head. Thank you.
I distinctly remember waking up to the sound of my alarm blaring to an all too familiar sound. I slammed the top of the alarm as I had every morning before, but I knew this morning was different. Up until that moment the true reality of what I had gotten myself into had not truly settled in, the days and months leading up to me coming to TMI had seemed more like preparation for a summer camp than moving into a boarding school, but in that moment staring at my ceiling as my roommate stirred across the room, everything suddenly hit me at once. The only thing left in my mind was the thought, “I messed up really bad this time”.  School had been one of the places I despised most in the world, and now I had gotten myself stuck living there for the rest of the year. The strenuous series of events that ended up with me standing here today all started 2 years before I first came to TMI. I had lived most of my life on the northside of Houston in The Woodlands and in my mind this was the place that I thought would always be my home. I had imagined my friends and I all going to the same high school and graduating together, but none of this was meant to be. One night at dinner my parents asked me how I felt about moving, and not realizing the seriousness of the question, I agreed that living in a new city could be interesting and not much more discussion of the subject was brought up. I went on with my life like normal, thinking nothing of the conversation until a couple months later it was brought up again, but this time it was not a question. I was told that my dad was going to be switching jobs and that we would be moving to Corpus Christi after the school year ended in a few months. As many kids would hearing this news I did not take it well. I hated the idea of leaving my home and my friends. From my stubbornness and anger the idea began to form that I would simply just not leave. My best friend and I began to plot how I could stay by living with him and how fun it would be for us to be able to live together, but as these plans grew so did my determination to stay. And with it anger began to build up at the idea of leaving. As expected when I finally had built up the courage to confront my mom with these plans it did not go as well as I had planned out in my head, the next few months leading up to us moving where a constant routine of fighting and begging to be able to stay. The more I was told no the harder I pushed back and the more hopeless things seemed. What seemed like my whole life was either packed up in a truck or disappearing behind me in the rear view mirror. As we drove from what I thought was always going to be my home I started to feel anger rise up and boil within me. Instead of trying to look on the brightside and look forward to all the new things I would be facing, all I could do was dwell on the past. And everything I could have had if none of this had happened. As months passed all I could feel was anger, and  the darker my view of everything was becoming. I blamed my parents for what in my mind seemed like ripping me away from what I thought was the only thing that could make me happy. I became rude and short tempered with the people around me. The only thing I wanted or cared about was being able to go back to Houston. I even began to push away anyone who tried to become close to me, because I saw them as just another thing trying to keep me there and force me away from what would make me happy. My life had become a repetitive period of highs and lows, each making me want to go more. The only times I would look forward to where breaks when I would get to go back to Houston and hangout with my friends and each time I would dread having to go back to Corpus once that break was over. I had become so focused on the idea that this was the only place I could be happy. The more I focused on this idea, the darker things became around me, as I fueled the negative spiral I had forced myself into. I knew I couldn't continue in this cycle but, I didn't know what to do anymore or how to help myself. Half way through the  year with my actions and mindset continuing the same desperate way they had been, my parents finally decided that they needed to set things straight. Almost a year had passed and I had shown no signs of giving up on the idea that the best place for me was back in Houston where I felt I belonged. I could either try to change the way I had been acting and stay in corpus. Or the second option was one that at first seemed even worse than the situation I was trying to get myself out of. To go to a boarding school. I had finally come to terms with knowing the foot had been put down by my parents and there was no going back to the place that I had been hanging onto for so long. It was now something that I knew would not be possible. I was left with only two options. And only one seemed possible in my mind. I had turned living in Corpus into such a prison that it only reminded me of all the bad things that had happened during the course of me living there. The only way I felt that I could work with the new hand I had been given was if I left. It was a step further then what had thrown me into such a downward spiral the first time. Since before I had family and my dog, no matter how hard I had made things on myself, but now I would truly be going into this alone. In a place I had never been, and people that I had never met before. But it was the only way I felt I could make things work, with a clean start to try to be better than I had been before. After a long process of visits, tours, meetings and applications I knew that this was truly for the best no matter how hard or difficult it seemed. All of this changed however as I woke up to the sound of that alarm blaring, for the first day of school. As i layed in my bed all the positivity I had tried to build up was slowly being drained away. My mind was filled with worry as I thought about all the ways that things could go wrong. As the year began I struggled to get into the habits of a new school and dorm life. As the year went on I fell into the new routine of my life here, but no matter how hard I tried, I was still angry. I felt confused and not sure what to do, or where I was meant to be. But the more I thought about it there was really nobody to blame but myself. The whole reason I ended up in the scenario that had led me to this point was all because of me. The only person who had really stood in the way of me being happy was myself. As the school year was coming to an end I was faced once again with the decision of what I wanted to do. Even though I had the same two options, this time I decided things would be different. Whether or not I decided to return to TMI or go back to corpus. I had decided I would stick with it for the next 2 years, and I would change my mindset and be positive about my choice and be happy where I was. Looking at my year at TMI I realised that I had made good friends who had been there for me, and i met the guys that I now consider to be like my brothers while living in the dorm. This time instead of going to a new place. I would be going somewhere that felt like home and with people who were like my family. It had taken me years to learn, but I had finally begun to understand that sometimes the greatest enemy you face is yourself. You determine what you can and cannot do. Any situation can become bad if that's how you want to perceive it, but in the same way, any bad situation can be made much better just by trying to make the best of what you have to face. Your mindset is one of the greatest tools you have once you learn to control it. And with it anything is possible. 
It is my opinion that any chapel talk that hopes to stick into the tiktok length attention span of the average TMI students brain, needs to clearly state what it's about very early on in the talk while all the listeners are still awake.To put it bluntly I want to talk about time, specifically how we handle it with our habits and how making tiny changes now can change the trajectory of your whole life. Now, the genesis of this talk is a TMI 2015 convocation day video, which was in fact the first glimpse I had into TMI life before I was a student, and it got me thinking about time. Every single person in that video, with the exception of some of our ancient faculty and staff, is no longer ats TMI .when that video was filmed however they were just students at TMI, same as me and you however the main difference between them and you currently is that their time as a highschool school student, is over, its finished for them, but for you, its not, you still have time left here, whether that be years or 77 days exactly including today. regardless, you will never again in your life be this young and It's easy to look at this statement as very depressing and sad. Rather look at it like this, never again will you have this much opportunity or potential to change the course of your life, now At the core of any good time travel movie a key point will be how any little shift or change in the past can have huge repercussions for the present. Makes logical sense right, now take out the time travel sci fi nonsense, and apply it to right now. Any action or decision you make right now in your life could have immense effects on what happens in the future and so many people fail to consider that. The best time to change your life was yesterday, and the second best is today. To quote the Roman poet horace “Dare to be wise; begin! He who postpones the hour of living rightly is like the rustic who waits for the river to run out before he crosses.” but you don’t just magically change because you want to. If you truly want to change in the most effective way possible you have to understand how little changes in our habits now completely change your future.  It is so easy to overestimate the importance of one defining moment and underestimate the value of making small improvements on a daily basis. Too often, we convince ourselves that massive success requires massive action. Whether it is losing weight, winning a championship, or achieving any other goal, we put pressure on ourselves to make some earth-shattering improvement that everyone will talk about. Meanwhile, improving by 1 percent isn’t particularly notable or even noticeable—but it can be far more meaningful, especially in the long run. The difference a tiny improvement can make over time is astounding. Here’s how the math works out: if you get 1 percent better each day for one year, you’ll end up thirty-seven times better Conversely, if you get 1 percent worse each day for one year, you’ll decline nearly down to zero. What starts as a small win or a minor setback accumulates into something much more. habits seem to make little difference now and yet the impact they deliver over the months and years can be enormous. It is only when looking back that the value of good habits and the cost of bad ones becomes obvious. We often dismiss small changes because they don’t seem to matter very much at the moment. If you save a little money now, you’re still not a millionaire. If you go to the gym three days in a row, you’re still out of shape. We make a few changes, but the results don’t come quickly and so we slide back into our previous routines. Unfortunately, the slow pace of transformation makes it easy to let a bad habit slide. If you eat an unhealthy meal today, the scale doesn't move much. If you procrastinate and put your project off until tomorrow, there will usually be time to finish it later. A single decision is easy to dismiss. But when we repeat 1 percent errors, day after day, by replicating poor decisions, duplicating tiny mistakes, and rationalizing little excuses, our small choices compound into toxic results. It’s the accumulation of many missteps—a 1 percent decline here and there—that eventually leads to a problem. The impact created by a change in your habits is similar to the effect of shifting the route of an airplane by just a few degrees. Imagine you are flying from Los Angeles to New York City. If a pilot leaving fromLAX adjusts the heading just 3.5 degrees south, you will land in Washington, D.C., instead of New York. Such a small change is barely noticeable at takeoff—the nose of the airplane moves just a few feet—but when magnified across the entire United States, you end up hundreds of miles apart.*Similarly, a slight change in your daily habits can guide your life to a very different destination. Making a choice that is 1 percent better or 1 percent worse seems insignificant at the moment, but over the span of a lifetime these choices determine the difference between who you are and who you could be. Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations. It doesn’t matter how successful or unsuccessful you are right now. What matters is whether your habits are putting you on the path toward success. You should be far more concerned with your current trajectory than with your current results. If you’re a millionaire but you spend more than you earn each month, then you’re on a bad trajectory. If your spending habits don’t change, it’s not going to endwell. Conversely, if you’re broke, but you save a little bit every month,then you’re on the path toward financial freedom—even if you're moving slower than you’d like.Your outcomes are a lagging measure of your habits.. Your weight is a lagging measure of your eating habits. Your knowledge is a lagging measure of your learning habits. Your clutter is a lagging measure of your cleaning habits. You get what you repeat.If you want to predict where you’ll end up in life, all you have to do is follow the curve of tiny gains or tiny losses, and see how your daily choices will compound years down the line. Are you spending less than you earn each month? Are you making it into the gym each week? Are you reading books and learning something new each day? Tiny battles like these are the ones that will define your future self. Time magnifies the margin between success and failure. It will multiply whatever you feed it. Good habits make time your ally. Bad Habits make time your enemy. Habits are a double-edged sword. Bad habits can cut you down just as easily as good habits can build you up. Imagine that you have a pot of water on a hot plate in front of you, you heat the water up until it scalds you, but nothing happens so you keep heating it up and heating it up, but it's not until you heat it from 211 degrees fahrenheit to 212 degrees fahrenheit that something actually happens, the water begins to boil A one-degree shift,seemingly no different from the temperature increases before it, has unlocked a huge change.Breakthrough moments are often the result of many previous actions, which build up the potential required to unleash a major change. This pattern shows up everywhere. Bamboo can barely be seen for the first five years as it builds extensive root systems underground before exploding ninety feet into the air within six weeks.Similarly, habits often appear to make no difference until you cross a critical threshold and unlock a new level of performance. However, even if you try maintaining good habits it can be so easy to give up on them because you don't see results. You expect to make progress in a linear fashion and it's frustrating how ineffective changes can seem during the first days,weeks, and even months..This is one of the core reasons why it is so hard to build habits that last. People make a few small changes, fail to see a tangible result, and decide to stop. You think, “I’ve been running every day for a month, so why can’t I see any change in my body?”If you think like this, it’s easy to let good habits fall by the wayside. If you are improving by 1% every day, which implies exponential improvement but expecting to make linear improvement, there will be an area where it will seem like nothing is happening, but it is when you finally break this plateau that you will truly see results. Complaining about not achieving success despite working hard is like complaining about water not boiling when you heated it from 100 to 200 degrees. Your work was not wasted; it is just being stored. All the action happens at 212 degrees. The outside world only sees the most dramatic event rather than all that preceded it. It is the human equivalent of geological pressure. Two tectonic plates can grind against one another for millions of years, the tension slowly building all the while. Then, one day, they rub each other once again, in the same fashion they have for ages, but this time the tension is too great. An earthquake erupts. Change can take years—before it happens all at once. Mastery requires patience. The San Antonio Spurs have a quote from social reformer Jacob Riis hanging in their locker room that embodies this perfectly “When nothing seems to help,I go and look at a stonecutter hammering away at his rock, perhaps a hundred times without as much as a crack showing in it. Yet at the hundred and first blow it will split in two, and I know it was not that last blow that did it—but all that had gone before.” All big things come from small beginnings. The seed of every habit is a single, tiny decision. But as that decision is repeated, a habit sprouts and grows stronger. Roots entrench themselves and branches grow. The task of breaking a bad habit is like uprooting a powerful oak within us. And the task of building a good habit is like cultivating a delicate flower one day at a time. Few things can have a more powerful impact on your life than improving your daily habits. And yet it is likely that this time next year you’ll be doing the same thing rather than something better. It often feels difficult to keep good habits going for more than a few days, even with sincere effort and the occasional burst of motivation. Habits like exercise, meditation, journaling, and cooking are reasonable for a day or two and then become a hassle. However, once your habits are established, they seem to stick around forever—especially the unwanted ones.When it comes to building habits that last—when it comes to building a system of 1 percent improvements. The problem is the direction of change. Many people begin the process of changing their habits by focusing on what they want to achieve. This leads us to outcome-based habits. The alternative is to build identity-based habits. With this approach, we start by focusing on who we wish to become. Imagine two people being offered a fun alternative to doing their homework that's due tomorrow. When offered, the first person says, “No thanks. I’m trying to be a good student.” It sounds like a reasonable response, but this person still believes they are a bad student who is trying to be something else. They are hoping their behavior will change while carrying around the same beliefs. The second person declines by saying, “No thanks. I’m a good student, I need to do this.” It’s a small difference, but this statement signals a shift in identity. Putting off homework was part of their former life, not their current one. They no longer identify as someone who’s a bad student. Most people don’t even consider identity change when they set out to improve. They just think, “I want to be skinny (outcome) and if I stick to this diet, then I’ll be skinny (process).” They set goals and determine the actions they should take to achieve those goals without considering the beliefs that drive their actions. The ultimate form of intrinsic motivation is when a habit becomes part of your identity. It’s one thing to say I’m the type of person who wants this. It’s something very different to say I’m the type of person who is this. The more pride you have in a particular aspect of your identity, the more motivated you will be to maintain the habits associated with it. If you’re proud of how your hair looks, you’ll develop all sorts of habits to care for and maintain it. If you’re proud of the size of your biceps like my friend gabo, you’ll make sure you never skip an upper-body workout. Once your pride gets involved, you’ll fight tooth and nail to maintain your habits. True behavior change is identity change. You might start a habit because of motivation, but the only reason you’ll stick with one is that it becomes part of your identity. Anyone can convince themselves to visit the gym or eat healthy once or twice, but if you don’t shift the belief behind the behavior, then it is hard to stick with long-term changes. Improvements are only temporary until they become part of who you are. The goal is not to read a book, the goal is to become a reader. The goal is not to run a marathon, the goal is to become a runner. The goal is not to learn an instrument, the goal is to become a musician. Your behaviors are usually a reflection of your identity. What you do is an indication of the type of person you believe that you are—either consciously or unconsciously. Like all aspects of habit formation, this is a double-edged sword. When working for you, changing your identity can be a powerful force for self-improvement. When working against you, though, changing your identity can be a curse. Once you have adopted an identity, it can be easy to let your allegiance to it impact your ability to change. Many people walk through life in a cognitive slumber, blindly following the norms attached to their identity. Each habit is like a suggestion: “Hey, maybe this is who I am.” If you finish a book, then perhaps you are the type of person who likes reading. If you go to the gym, then perhaps you are the type of person who likes exercise. If you practice playing the guitar, perhaps you are the type of person who likes music. Every action you take is a vote for the type of person you wish to become. No single instance will transform your beliefs, but as the votes build up, so does the evidence of your new identity. Small habits can make a meaningful difference by providing evidence of a new identity. And if a change is meaningful, it actually is big. That’s the paradox of making small improvements. Putting this all together, you can see that habits are the path to changing your identity. The most practical way to change who you are is to change what you do. Each time you write a page, you are a writer. Each time you practice the violin, you are a musician. Each time you start a workout, you are an athlete. Each time you encourage your cadets, you are a leader. Each habit not only gets results but also teaches you something far more important: to trust yourself. You start to believe you can actually accomplish these things. When the votes mount up and the evidence begins to change, the story you tell yourself begins to change as well. But the true question is: “Are you becoming the type of person you want to become?” The first step is not what or how, but who. You need to know who you want to be. Otherwise, your quest for change is like a boat without a rudder. You have the power to change your beliefs about yourself. Your identity is not set in stone. You have a choice at every moment. You can choose the identity you want to reinforce today with the habits you choose today. Habits can help you achieve all of these things, but fundamentally they are not about having something. They are about becoming someone. Ultimately, your habits matter because they help you become the type of person you wish to be. They are the channel through which you develop your deepest beliefs about yourself. Quite literally, you become your habits. Lastly TMI if you remember anything from my incessant rambling about time and habits today, remember this quote from the great cinematic masterpiece Kung fu Panda, delivered by the wise master oogway. “Yesterday is history, Tomorrow is a mystery, but today is a gift, that is why it is called the present” Thank you 
Every day from kindergarten to 8th grade, we would have a daily chapel to begin every school day. These chapel days would be led by the school’s headmaster, Mr. Webster. Mr. Webster is not only one of the best speakers I have ever heard, not only one of the best role models ever, but he is one of the best people I have ever met. He is the example of a perfect, loving person. Mr. Webster, also known as El Guapo, is a tall man who loves wearing his suits with blue jeans. He is someone who made an impact on everyone. Ask anyone who knows him, and they will say how much they love him. Even when I went to my sister’s chapel talk back in 2015, I was asked many times by TMI faculty about Mr. Webster. Everyone knows him because he just is so great. Everyday during chapel, he would show a clip of a movie, and then he would talk about a life lesson that was shown in that movie. He would talk about laziness or how to use our values to bring up a better life for ourselves. There are infinitely many quotes he had that are beautiful, however, my favorite one is “Let love and honesty rule your life. Take those words love and honesty and write them on the tablet of your heart. And you will win a good name, and a good name is worth more than all the money in the world.” This wonderful saying was spoken almost every day by Mr. Webster. What he meant by “name” is someone’s reputation or character. Someone’s reputation is more than their wealth, where they go to school, their job, or anything else. A person’s character defines who they are better than anything else. Think about some of the best historical figures in the world. Think about five of the best people in history. You probably thought of people like Gandhi, MLK, Muhammad Ali, Abraham Lincoln, or even Albert Einstein. All that mattered was their character. No one thinks of the wealthiest people in history when talking about the best people. I doubt anyone thought of Bill Gates or Jeff Bezos. Which proves that someone’s name is better than everything else. People would much rather prefer someone who can create a positive impact on the world rather than someone who does not. I strive to have a good reputation, and I bet most people listening would agree that my reputation is definitely not the worst, but definitely not the best. I can do better and so can most. People in this room would want to be remembered after they leave TMI. The best way to do that is to take the words love and honesty and write them on the tablet of your heart. As I reflect on the people who gave me love and honesty, I think of when I was a 10 years old always being at the mosque during the month of Ramadan. I always would hang out with my brother’s friends, so everyone would be a lot older than me. Some people were in their 20s and they seemed like old men to me. I was the youngest in that group by far. All of the older teens and 20 year olds would always treat me like the baby in the group and would be super kind. Everytime we would play basketball, they made it easy for me to score and even picked me up for me to dunk. Everytime we would eat dinner, they would make sure I had food first even though most of the time, they would fast while I was too young to. They always did the best they could to make me feel included. They treated me with respect even though I was just a tiny baby to them. One person who comes to mind when thinking about people with a great name is one of my favorite teachers I have ever had, Mrs. Duke. Mrs. Duke taught English my freshman and sophomore year. Every single person who had Mrs. Duke loved her. She was the most understanding and empathetic person I have ever met. She made sure that her job was more than just teaching English. It was a more personal relationship which made it better. During sophomore year, Ramadan was during the school year. This was the first time I ever had to fast during the school day. For those of you who do not know, Ramadan is a month on the Muslim calendar where we fast, or don’t eat for an entire day to show our gratitude for what we have. It helps us think about those who do not have enough to eat. So everyday, we would be hungry from sunrise to sunset until we wake up the next day and do it over again. Mrs. Duke heard about Ramadan starting and knew two of her students were Muslims who were about to start the amazing month. She wanted to be there with us while we did it. She fasted all thirty days. Even after a couple of years, I am still shocked that she went through that with us. She made it easier knowing that we were not alone Another Mrs. Duke story was during my freshman year. Most of us came to TMI not knowing most of the class. I know most people had a difficult time finding out where they belong and where they do not. However, there is one student who was a boarder that came from South Korea. Not only that, but he came in the middle of the year so it was even more difficult to meet more people. During class, Mrs. Duke told about the student from Korea. She talked about how he is a nice kid that seems a little shy and is really into purchasing new shoes. Mrs. Duke cared about getting this student more comfortable at this new school in a new country on the other side of the world. Thankfully, because of the introduction, this new kid from Korea, Ryan Kim, is one of my best friends today. During February of my junior year, I became a squad leader, and from what I heard from everyone was that my squad had a 6th grader who was always unprepared and even had problems with keeping his uniform in shape. One day during formation, he got yelled at and seemed upset by that. When I saw him tear up, I knew he was not a bad kid who did not care about what he was doing. I knew something was wrong. Again, the only thing I heard about this kid was bad things. However, I ignored all of his previous leaders, and I tried my best to make sure he was always prepared and ready. After spending some time with him and treating him with love, honesty, and respect, he got better. I saw him become happier as well. At the end of the year during one of our last formations, he came up to me and gave me a hug and said, “Thanks Omer for helping me. I am excited for next year, and I will be better.” This year, I am glad to see this improved seventh grader become not only a better cadet, but a better and happier person. The different approach I took to lead this kid is what made a difference in him. The power of this way of leading with love and honesty can change someone for the better. I tell these stories because the way I was treated inspired me to treat others the same way. It was to prove how these words of Mr. Webster really are true. People will always remember you for your character. People will always remember you for being a difference in their life. People will always remember you for being there when needed. There are people who are not always there and only care for themselves. These are the people that won’t be known for having a good name. They may do well for themselves, however, people will not care about them down the road. I am glad I can go home everyday knowing that I was able to impact so many people so easily. All I needed was a good mindset. I needed the mindset of Mr. Webster. That amazing man must have impacted so many students for the almost 40 years he worked at that school. People have asked me many times how I am able to have an impact on so many people. It is because of Mr. Webster. It is because I let love and honesty rule my life. I took those words, love and honesty and wrote them on the tablet of my heart. I hope I will win a good name, because I know that a good name is worth more than all the money in the world.
Hi, Kifak Ça Va? In English, this sentence translates to Hi, How Are You? Are you fine? What you don't realize, however, is that each word in this phrase is in a different language. It’s three different languages combined together to form one whole, singular statement. It is a combination of English, Arabic, and French. Mixing three languages may sound pretty complicated to you, but it is fairly routine for me. I value this complexity because it is a good representation of how I grew up and how I live my life. Contrary to popular belief, my last name is neither Arabic nor French; it is actually Armenian. Some of you may know this, but the majority do not know that I am trilingual. Not only that, but I have been since I was five years old. Growing up in a house that primarily spoke Arabic and French, those languages came to me naturally. Altering every word, creating new words, and switching to different languages in one sentence is commonplace in my household. My mom and dad were both born in Lebanon, a small country located in the Middle East. My mom is fully Lebanese, and my father is half French and half Armenian. Growing up in Lebanon, French and Arabic were their first two languages, so there was no doubt that their two children would eventually learn them too. They both came here as young adults, and although adjustment was difficult, they seemed totally fine with their dichotomous world: American outside the house and something different at home. They appeared at ease with different foods, different music, and even different humor, matching their surroundings at any moment. They had friends that were like them and other, more traditional Americans, for lack of better words. Early in my life, I never realized this complexity. It was perfectly normal for me to watch Spongebob and Sesame Street in English while simultaneously speaking in Arabic or French to my mother. At times, I would also watch cartoons or acrobats on the French satellite channel TV5. And to be quite honest, I thought this is what everyone else did too. I was in, what I would call, an ethnic enclave. It was the same for my brother. I enjoyed my Lebanese and French dishes cooked by my mom while also occasionally enjoying a hot dog, a burger, or mac and cheese. I didn’t have much American influence at home, but I never felt out of place. I never seemed to question who and where I was and how I got here. As I started school, things got more complicated. I slowly started realizing that most people I met did not have families similar to mine. For most, English was the only language with the occasional Spanish speaker. No one seemed to have the complex culinary experience I had had. I began to ask myself: “How did I get here?” when I would talk to my parents about our family history. I could not comprehend how a French-Lebanese girl ended up in San Antonio, Texas as a native-born American citizen. I quickly learned that I wasn't like the people next to me, and at such a young age, that did nothing but make me question myself and my interests. Growing up is hard. We never talk about it ourselves, but we all know it. We are constantly overthinking and over-stressing about every situation, whether good, bad or somewhere in between. In short, our minds are all over the place. However, the one constant in growing up is wanting to blend in. This was no different for me. At such a young age, it was hard for me to understand the dynamics of the world, and I could never understand why I felt this way. I was confused about how I felt so in place at home but never did when I was at school. As I started first grade, I would bring my pink, polka-dotted, embroidered backpack set to school with me just like any other seven-year-old girl. I would place it in the cubby with my name on it, again, just like everyone else; I felt connected as, on the surface, it looked like I had the same things as the kids around me. I loved my backpack set. I would get excited over the vibrant colors and the keychains that I would adorn it with. However, the key part of the set was the lunch box. Every day, before school, my mom and I would pack my food in a Thermos. I loved my Lebanese food and would always choose it over anything else offered to me. Something to know about Lebanese food is that it's got a lot of spice and, quite frankly, can look a bit Martian at times, but to me, that didn’t matter because that is what I loved. Glancing over at my friends’ lunches, it looked like a whole collection of American staple dishes. Cute peanut butter sandwiches, bagels, and rice crispy treats, just to name a few. Personally, I love a good bagel, but I also love my home-cooked meals. Pulling out my hummus felt awkward, but I did it anyway. At first, it was fine as no one was paying attention to what I ate. But, the one time that someone did catch it, my old feeling of disconnect returned. The statement “eww” spoke to me as if it was a whole paragraph and not just one three-lettered word. Although it was such a short statement, I felt a quick switch in my emotions, not just from happy to sad, but from confident to ashamed. It felt like all my questions of “How did I get here?” were valid as I genuinely felt like I was not where I should be. For years, I stuck with the mindset that I should kick out the traditions I grew up with in order to fit in. I would continue to pack the same food, but instead of proudly placing it on the table, I would sheepishly cup it in my hands under the table. I allowed the one incident to control my future actions, and I became my worst enemy. It was a spark that led to being ashamed and confused for many years to follow. Another American tradition for many is summer camp. Hearing all about it, it sounded like something that I would have loved to do. Going away for two weeks, staying up until 2 am, and spending unlimited time in pools and rivers are things that I love to do. I went to day camps all over Texas growing up, but because my extended maternal family was so far away, I would take a big chunk out of my summer to go visit them in Lebanon. While my friends were at summer camp, I would leave San Antonio for two months every summer and go to Lebanon. Two months is a long time to be virtually disconnected from society back at home, but I didn’t mind it much. For me, my summer looked quite different. I did not do the same things my friends did at camp. But instead, I did my own things that brought me joy. In San Antonio, I don’t have any family other than my mom, dad, brother, and grandma. As a result, being with my family in Lebanon was what I really cherished. What I enjoyed most about my summers was working with my family in our family restaurant. This restaurant is and has been very important in my life. My family has been running it since my mom was a child herself. She grew up running the restaurant and exposed me to its working functions when I was a little girl. Yes, I did not have the experience of going to camp, but being at the restaurant was important to me. It was a family tradition. It may sound weird that I enjoyed spending my summer far from my friends, but Lebanon is where I made a lot of my memories growing up. On my mom's side alone, I have 11 direct cousins ranging from ages 13 to 32, which partially explains why I loved being there more than here over the summer. There was always someone to hang out with.My summer days consisted of me waking up, going on a walk to my family garden, hanging out with my cousins, and working at the restaurant. I felt comfortable in these situations because I was never thinking about how different my lifestyle was compared to those around me. At night, I would go out with my cousins down to the village square where my family was from. I loved every second of it. I loved being placed in an environment where it seemed like everyone around me understood the things I thought made me stand out at home: the foods I ate, the way I lived my life, and the numerous family traditions I would attend to all year. Coming home was always bittersweet for me. I was always excited to see my friends whom I had not seen in a while, but also upset about leaving my family and going back home and putting 7,000 miles between us once again. To say that I did not miss my friends and that part of me did not wish that I had the opportunity to go to summer camp would be a lie. I left my second home with a mindset that I needed to get back to San Antonio to continue my life. It wouldn’t bug me because I knew that I would come back. It didn’t feel out of the ordinary to return home for me, but I didn’t realize the impact it would have on me until I returned to school. I was unable to have those classic camp discussions with everyone around me. I didn’t have those staying up until 2 AM memories. To put it in its simplest terms, I didn’t have any of the same memories those around me had. All I knew was that deep down inside, I loved the memories I had made but was irritated that my summer was different in what I considered an “awkward way.” No one said it to my face, but being so young, my head still trailed back to the “ew” I had once gone through. It took a while for me to realize it, but I was proud of myself and who I was when placed in a comfortable situation with people similar to me, but ashamed when I was around those who were different. I noticed that although I had rough experiences in the past, it was I who began to shelter myself. As I grew older and started branching out, I allowed myself to show off parts of myself that I wouldn’t have before. Often, people think that one significant, groundbreaking event is needed to change one's mindset, but I believe that something is still changing, no matter the severity of the change. For me, simply exploring the world around me, opening my eyes to everyone around me, and opening my ears, was what helped me change. This wasn’t done overnight; rather, it took many years of different experiences. As I grew older and began to see the differences in the world, I noticed that I simply began to cherish the differences, which pushed me into a new mindset. Although I wasn’t and still am not the most expressive of who I am and what my background is, it is a step in the right direction to simply be proud of who I am when asked about it. For a while, I considered it embarrassing to even speak French or Arabic in front of my friends, but now it seems regular to me as I have changed the mindset I had once created for myself. It is important to remember those critical memories, even if they were bad, because, in one way or another, they will shape the person you become as you grow up. I am not saying that you need to dwell on the experience, but instead of remembering them as bad, use them to your advantage. Do not allow yourself to be your worst enemy. Self-questioning is okay because it promotes growth and self-understanding. Self-doubt is terrible because it leads to undue hesitation and withdrawal from others. I wish I had learned that earlier. Never allow yourself to think you should be embarrassed by the things you should be proud of. How could you ever be yourself if you don’t stand by yourself? As Timothy Mouse once said in Disney’s Dumbo, “The very things that hold you down are going to lift you up.” I am now perfectly fine with where I came from. I am now perfectly fine with showing off the family traditions I have. I am happy and perfectly okay to be a mixture of French, Armenian, Lebanese, and American. Melange Hilou.
So, if you ever want hummus, let me know. Thank you. 
In the words of the great Kenny Rogers, You gotta know when to hold 'em, and you gotta know when to fold 'em. Life is a mental game - it's about how you choose to play the cards you're given.
“All in”, I announced, as an over-hyped me pushed my dignity along with every single one of my chips into the center of the poker table. I stared right into Chris Goldsbury’s clear blue eyes as I shoved everything into the pot, hoping to catch the slightest glimpse of stress or uncertainty in his face gained from my calling his bet. To my horror, he just aimed his usual friendly smile back at me. It was only him and I left in the hand, and we had both put it all on the line. It was the final hand of the night, and I had chosen to leave my fate in the hands of luck. Lucky for me, I had been having no shortage of it that night. Just five minutes prior to going all in, I was balling. I felt like I had luck on my side and was on top of the world as I had been winning so much that I was ready to cash in my chips and go buy both Boardwalk and Park Place. It was around 11:55 PM when I asked the house, Carlo Miggins, to cash out. To which he replied, “just wait five more minutes.” I sat back down at the table and, feeling lucky as I was, allowed my friends to coax me into playing another hand. Chris played the hand with unmatched confidence and aggression, despite usually being a conservative and restrained player, causing everybody besides me to fold their cards. He knew his hand had a high value, as he bet more and more money every chance got, with a smug goal of forcing me to match his bet to extract maximum dollars from my wallet. I had a solid hand and was already in too deep by the time Chris went all in. It came down to just the two of us, and Chris had caught me in a flustered state. He realized that the last thing I wanted to do was fold my cards and let my winnings as well as my ego take a hit on the last hand of the night, so he exploited me in my state of delirium. I briefly contemplated folding my cards as I would only be losing about a quarter of my money instead of risking it all, especially when I knew all signs pointed to his hand being stronger than mine. Despite this, I dropped my poker face, allowed my pride to take the wheel, and let any remaining sense of reason fade into the void I call “Yolo” as I reached for all the rest of my chips to match his colossal bet. I was caught dead in the heat of the moment as the whole room gathered around our table, bringing the volume and the pressure to an all-time high. The most humble and sportsmanlike smile crept across Chris’s face as he turned over the winning hand, taunting me back into the depths of my own mind and my now empty wallet. I had lost everything, all in one hand, because of one decision. Similar to poker, life can be a game of luck. There are times when you can make all the right moves and things can still go wrong, and it’s times like these that cause players to stray from their logic. But, in the long run, if you learn to keep your head on your shoulders and continually make the right moves under the right mindset, it can pay off in both games as your odds of winning will be maximized. Although we do not have control over the cards we are dealt, we have constant control over how we let our “luck” affect us mentally. In order to achieve a winning mindset, you have to find your poker face: a mental zone where you allow nothing and no one to phase your outlook on the game. To hold your poker face is to fortify your mind by using your logic to find the best possible outlook. To drop your poker face is to betray yourself by giving out free information to your opponents as well as giving up your mental leverage. Your mind is your most powerful weapon, as it is the only thing that stays within your control in any given situation. The moment you let your poker face slip and allow yourself to act under the influence of your own emotions is the moment that your rationality leaves you and your odds become one hundred percent a gamble. One impulsive decision can sting you in the short term, but one small adjustment to your mindset can last a lifetime. That night as I lay broke on Carlo's couch, I thought about the large change in my wallet and the root of it.  Although my success up to that point had been dependent on luck, I still allowed it to get to my head and inflate my ego. I was up big and I felt as if I could play all week without losing a hand. The luck and therefore success I had boasted on the night was completely beyond my control yet it was the thing I was most focused on. I had allowed my emotions to push me into a state in which I completely disregarded logic and instead acted upon my feelings. This sense of pride and excitement paired with the pressure of the final hand as well as the yells of all my friends hijacked my brain and caused me to make a decision that took me off my spaceship and brought me back down to earth. I asked myself “why did I do that?” genuinely trying to scan my own mind for an answer. My problem was that I never stopped to think about how I could better play my cards, instead, I allowed my cards to play me. The way I would play the game was solely based on my current situation, causing me to just go with the flow and leave no space for strategy while leaving all the space for luck. I just mindlessly called the bet because in the midst of all the chaos, the thought of folding bored me. Although this moment was insignificant compared to other mistakes I've made, it occurred to me then that this was something that went beyond just the poker table; something that occurred in my life on the regular. The thought of making another reckless decision on the basis of practically nothing ate at me, and I realized that I needed to better develop my mindset. My poker face and rationality had gotten lost somewhere along the way and I was looking at life through whatever I felt in the present moment. I let fleeting things that happened dictate my mood and my actions, all while these things were completely beyond the realm of my control. What I needed was a simple change in the way I let these situations affect me. Now, for those of you who aren’t familiar with poker, I apologize if the part I just explained made as much sense to you as someone telling stories about something usually associated with gambling to a bunch of students in chapel. However, there is a lot more to poker than just winning and losing. Despite being a game of luck, an experienced player will almost always end the session with more chips than a rookie. The experienced player, think Chris, has learned to keep an unreadable poker face, giving himself important rational-based decision-making skills over the rookie, think me, who allows his emotions to play into his actions, eventually not being able to control himself properly. The more I let my emotions influence how I play the game, the more my odds are taken out of my hands and placed in the hands of Lady Luck. Having a great decision-making process is significant not only in poker but also in everyday life. Like with any challenge that you face, if you can keep your cool while facing an adversary, you can better control the course of your game and create better odds for yourself. Competition is important; without it, we would lose motivation to win, to overcome the other person, group, or task we face. If everybody always won, no drive would exist to accomplish great things; we would fail to ever advance our positions in life. Circling back to poker, you are not only playing against the people at the table around you, but you are also playing against challenges you come across in your daily life. The world can often be like the casino in the way that it doesn’t want to see you win. Only so many people get to make the spot for that job you want, that college you want to go to, that starting spot on the team, etcetera. This leaves the responsibility of winning in your hands alone, which can be tough when every move you make at the table has the potential to shake up your life. Don’t let your guard down and let your emotions get the best of you; doing this will only reduce your chances of success and cause you to become rash instead of strategic. It is important to keep your mental prowess away from your opponent's grasp so they can't gain a mental advantage over you in any competition. Displaying emotions will not only fuel your actions and the extremity of them, but it also allows your opponent to utilize your feelings against you. If you can keep your conscience safe from any manipulation, you can be in perfect control of your situation. Now, here's where I play my next card - Paul, of Tarsus. I know if you're awake right now you're probably thinking, “Ollie, now you're gonna try to play the Bible card?” But, let me tell you, Paul is my ace in the hole. Despite not knowing his last name, I know that he fits in this talk, trust me. Paul was able to fend off countless attempts from the world to take his chips, and I think it came from learning to master his poker face. First, they threw him into prison, to which he responded with “Great, now I have more time to write some letters to my friends I’ve always wanted to write.” Next, they realized he was enjoying his time in prison and so they released him, to which he responded with “Awesome, now I can go visit my friends face to face.” Shortly after, they threatened to kill him. He replied, “Please do, I’d love to meet God.” Now, imagine that. Just try to imagine a way that you could beat someone who plays like that. Your odds of winning are one in a million. What could you do to beat someone who finds a win in every outcome? I’ve heard it's said… “You can’t drown a man who always keeps his head above water.” Paul found a way to float, even when the waters were rising. Aside from the story I just told you, Paul endured three different shipwrecks in which he lost family and friends and he was whipped countless times because of his religion. Yet through all of this and more, Paul never once let his poker face slip. His surroundings, his opponents, and the current course of his game were irrelevant to his demeanor, as he was able to keep a steady sense of serenity through any and every storm. Paul understood that the things that happened to him were completely and utterly beyond his control, so he realized that worrying about them would be a waste of his chips, and he decided not to let them change his game plan. He was consecutively dealt terrible cards over and over throughout his whole ministry as an apostle, yet he stuck to his poker face, giving him the mental leverage he needed over his enemies and ultimately making himself unbeatable. Now that I’m all out of aces and the final hand is approaching, I'm gonna go all in, again. Only this time, I thought about it. This time, I’m betting on y’all. Finding your poker face isn't about shunning your emotions, as they are a huge part of who you are. It's about finding an outlook that you can work with in any situation regardless of the cards you’ve been dealt or the people sitting beside you. I still have a long way to go in building a poker face myself, but I think I’ve got the right game plan. The beauty of both games of poker and life lies in the fact that everybody has their own unique style of playing their cards. It's important to stick to yours, and not let anything change it. Form your game plan around what you can control. Life happens, you can’t avoid that. What you can avoid is wasting time worrying about things you can’t change; things that could drag you down a way deeper hole than your luck ever could. This was never about gambling; you make your own luck. Thank you
I was never a perfect student, I got A’s on occasion but I was mostly a B student which meant I was average, mediocre, and unremarkable. My academics were not particularly noteworthy or impressive. I would go to school and constantly look for distractions to get me out of class. I would talk with my friends, ask to go to the restroom, or even enjoy the occasional fire drill just to skip that little bit of class. Distractions gave me the ability to forget that I was just an average student. As a result of my lack of focus and dedication to my studies, I often found myself behind in class becoming below average. I would struggle to keep up with the material, and my grades would suffer as a result. I would try to make up for it by studying harder and putting in more effort, but it was always an uphill battle. I was never able to fully catch up, and I would always end up feeling lost, frustrated, and discouraged, but then we hit this one unit in science class - life cycles. This topic caught my interest and made me think. For the first time, I found myself looking forward to going to class. I was fascinated by the way that different organisms developed and changed over time. This was the only class that I ever wanted to take, the only class I felt motivated to do better in. … Step 1 Airway must be secured with intubation. 7th grade came and I walk into science class expecting to pick up exactly where we left off learning about life and the many living things on earth and how they interacted with each other. All I wanted was to learn more about what makes up life and how we move but instead, I was greeted with rocks. Not even diamonds or emeralds just plain old rocks! I felt robbed, cheated, and empty. I had finally found something I was interested in and it was stripped away from me faster than a TV on black Friday. I was frustrated and upset leading me to fall back into my normal routine of looking for any distraction that came to me.  That was until my 6th-grade teacher Mrs. Mayberry offered an elective course I was able to find that passion again and study what I wanted. … Step 2 Mark the incision sites. In 8th grade, I got to experience the wonders of Forces, Motion, and Energy it never came close to life sciences but I enjoyed it. Once again I had found myself far away from the class that brought me the most joy and interest but at least it was learning about something that captured my attention. Step 3 create Incision into the epidermis. In 9th grade, I found my mind exploring the medical field and the many different pathways it has to offer. I expressed my interest to multiple different family members and I was assured that I had the ability to move forward in it. I was told that I must improve my grades to reflect good academic rigor so I did. …Step 4 Go through the dermis and superficial fascia! 10th Grade came and after a successful summer at a medical exploration camp, I was finally certain of the path that I wanted to take. I took the extra time to make sure I showed dedication in my classes. Instead of focusing on the closest distractions, I was finally beginning to find ways to not be distracted by focusing on achieving the goals that I wanted for myself. This quickly became the motivation needed to further my progress on what felt to be my impossible dream. … Step 5 Dissect through the muscle. In my junior year, I strived to do all that I could in my classes to prove myself worthy and try and break away from the feeling of being just average. The best way for me to find a way to distinguish myself was to go get experience within the field. Unfortunately, we had all just gone through a horrible pandemic, and there weren't many opportunities in hospitals or clinics in the area. This still did not stop my search, eventually, the opportunity arose with the chance to have a research internship in the summer with Emergency Health Services at the UT Health Science Center. … Step 6 Enter plural space! The internship started quickly, taking just until the end of the month for training. The process was long and difficult as I had to complete Institutional Review Board training which included studying The Belmont Report. The Belmont Report outlines the ethical principles that should guide research involving human subjects. The primary investigator wanted to explore the pre-hospital whole blood program that spread out of military healthcare to the civilian setting. Pre-hospital whole blood was important as every year pre-hospital hemorrhagic shock accounts for approximately 60,000 deaths in the United States and an estimated 1.9 million deaths worldwide. The other research intern and I got the opportunity to create a database of previous medical records to preform a statistical analysis that would reform the program. Additionally, we had the opportunity to respond to calls alongside the EMS physicians and the Medical officers of the San Antonio fire department. These heroes exposed me to many different patients with individual needs from just a simple lift alert to the patient that is fighting for their life. Step 7 Spread ribs. During my time as an intern, I had the chance to travel to Bulverde Spring Branch to see Scotty and his team at the Centre for Emergency Health Sciences they taught continuing education to all Emergency Health service providers. It was in Scotty's lab where I would encounter 2 fresh cadavers and 1 embalmed cadaver, 3 dead bodies all within 10 feet of me. Each of these participants had donated their body to science and it has gone to training doctors, paramedics, EMTs, police, firemen, military, and even interns such as myself. It was in this lab using these cadavers where the emergency health providers would hone their skills in needle decompressions, finger decompressions, amputation, thoracostomy, and even the most invasive procedure in the pre-hospital setting, the thoracotomy. Thoracotomy is one of the many surgical procedures I assisted with in the lab in which an incision is made through the chest wall in order to gain access to the organs inside the chest or thorax. These participants allowed us the gift of education, they save lives every day without being alive. They have inspired me to do good with the gift of knowledge that they left behind so humbly for me. Learning from the cadavers who gave me access to their plural cavity and the ability to deliver their heart made me recall the very moment when I found my passion in healthcare. I took a long look inside of myself and felt something in my own heart except in contrast to someone that is likely getting a thoracotomy it wasn't a gash or a wound, it was inspiration and passion. Step 8 deliver the Heart. Nov 29, 1:29 PM a notification I check my phone Summer EMT Acceptance Package Dear, Mr. Liang, We are excited to have you in our program, attached you will find your acceptance package. This gave me a feeling of belonging I was finally getting a step closer to something I considered an impossible dream. The chances of one surviving a thoracotomy are about 15%. The chance of a pre-med student becoming a doctor is similar. These odds are not in my favor but let it be known with the passion, drive, and sheer satisfaction I get out of helping my patients I can make it on my quest to dream my impossible dream. Once I was just an average kid who never impressed or disappointed anyone. Now I am that same old average kid that will impress with my passion for pursuing this career for my own sake. TMI, let us not be afraid to take the road less traveled, to follow our dreams and pursue our passions with all of our heart. For it is in doing so that we can truly live, and make a difference in the world. Let us encourage and support each other in this journey, and together, let us rise to the challenge of finding and following our passions. For it is through our passions that we can find meaning, purpose, and joy in life. So let us seize this opportunity, and let our light shine bright, inspiring and motivating those around us to do the same. Together, we can create a brighter future for ourselves and for those around us. Thank You!
"Why am I doing this?" That was a question I had in mind ever since middle school. Korea’s education system makes everyone fixate on grades and getting into those top 3 colleges, resulting in the craze of after school academies trapping students often past midnight every single day. During my time in Korea, where I spent most of my life, I didn’t know the purpose of me as a person. I felt like I was just wasting my time doing homework, for just some quiz, and a rank that didn't mean much. Summer of 2019, I decided, I needed a break from this cycle. My parents and I decided to look into studying abroad, which was always in the back of my father’s mind. When we found TMI, we fell in love. It was a small private school, away from the city, surrounded by nature. As I was looking for something completely different from my experience in Korea, it was perfect. Stereotypical statement from immigrants, but for me, America really was the land of opportunities. It was a second chance in life where I was given a blank canvas and was able to make that painting whatever I wanted it to be. However, this new painting I had to do was very far from home, and very far from what I was used to. Living by myself, alone in the dorms was probably the biggest change other than the language & cultural barrier I experienced. I didn’t have my parents to tell me what to do. I was ecstatic at first, indulging myself with snacks, ramen, and laying in bed with dirty clothes and shoes on. Those are some things I would never be able to do at home. However, living in the dorms came with responsibilities that I didn’t realize at first. Now, everything was up to me, and with too much freedom given to me, I was a wreck. The first two months flew by, and covid hit. Had to come back home for a while, and 6 months later I was on the flight back to Texas to start my sophomore year. This time, it was online though. All of us in the C dorm weren't allowed to leave the building, and I was bored out of my mind. Since I didn’t have much work to do, all I did was online shopping, watching random movies, and just killing time. I had everything I wanted from when I was in Korea. But soon enough, I was becoming a couch potato, as lazy as I can be. Laundry started to pile up, garbage was overflowing, unopened amazon packages stacked up against a corner, and my grades were going down. One of those days, I was in the shower, after watching South park for the past 3 hours, and procrastinating on math homework. I started thinking. Even though I thought life was better than before, I was doing the same thing I was doing in Korea: wasting away my time. My drawing on the blank canvas started to look like the one I had in Korea. I was devastated when I realized that I was going back to my old self. I wanted to be better, and I knew I could if I actually tried. That night, I made myself a promise. I need to be better than who I was the day before.  In my head, a new question popped up. “What can I do to make myself better?” Self improvement became my life motto from that point on. The next day, I shaved my head, determined to change myself. I wanted to move on from my past, and be a whole new person. It all started from a shower thought. I started to identify my flaws and pointed out two of them: discipline and health. The thing I struggled the most with was discipline, especially time management. I would always give up, sit on my phone and just waste time, when I got bored or tired. That led to assignments and chores piling up. If anyone remembers Paul's chapel talk from last year, he said “Ryan was always doing math in his room.” I was. Kind of.  Half the time, I was watching stupid tiktoks. Other half, I was sitting at my desk, zoning out.  Procrastination is a scary thing.  By the end of that quarter, I had 17 missing assignments for math due in 3 days. It was a nightmare. I started to take time management more seriously. I figured improving my productivity would help. I started by fixing my sleep schedule, by strictly going to bed at 10, waking up at 6:45 even on weekends. I started to leave my phone on the other side of the room and got rid of tiktok. I set a time table for myself, where I would start my afternoon by doing homework till dinner. Now, I had the entire time after dinner to relax, do my chores, and sleep early for a better tomorrow. As a result, my grades were going back up too. Next issue was physical health. When I first got here, I was around 165 lbs, zero muscle. Couldn’t even run the straight part of the track without stopping or do a single pushup. Sophomore year, I was in the fitness class with coach Tony, and I tried my best to not actually work out. I was too embarrassed to show others that I was weak. Stupid ego right. One day, coach Tony gathered all of us, and taught us how to work out. He taught us how to bench, squat, and deadlift with proper form. I was devastated. I couldn’t bench the bar, pick up the hex bar, or squat the bar. Just the bare bar. Then, coach Tony made us run on the track. I was gassed after the first few seconds. I felt horrible. I decided I should just give it my best and run, and lift weights. Someday, I thought, I would be able to bench more than the bar. Someday, I will be able to run a lap. With the newly found time after finishing my assignments, I would go out for a run, and spend time working out. By spring break of my sophomore year, that someday came. I was able to run a lap. I also gained some healthy weight and was in shape again. Junior year, I even joined the football team. Although I wasn’t that good at it, I was very proud of myself. This was something that I wouldn’t even have thought of had I continued to live in Korea. From that one shower thought, I decided to make a change, and kept myself in check and pushed myself to be better. And it was working. I was becoming a better version of myself, or so I thought.Once football season was over, I was slowly becoming the couch potato again. The laundry pile grew back in the corner of my room. Empty water bottles everywhere. I had stopped going out for runs, or just any physical activities in general. I also pushed myself away from others, because I was too determined to figure things out on my own. Soon after, I developed pretty bad social anxiety that I couldn’t even start conversations or continue on with them. I was slowly but surely detaching myself from society, stressing out about even the smallest things. A problem I had overlooked was that I was determined to figure things out on my own. Attempting to be completely independent. That's just not how humans work, we are social beings. It wasn’t until after winter break of junior year, when I finally decided to pull myself back together. I realized, sometimes my effort alone may not be enough. I got myself to think about the question that was in my head again. What can I do to make myself better? But this time, I changed it again. What can I do to make myself better with the help of others? Again, I started the troubleshooting process. I realized I missed home. Family. Although I never mentioned it to people, looking back at it, I was homesick. I was able to see my family once or maybe twice a year, and I missed them. So, I went out and looked for things that could be a substitute for home. First, I got back into going to church regularly. I’m guessing most of y'all wouldn’t know, but there is a Korean Church by McDonalds up on I-10. To be honest, at first, the Korean Catholic church was my outlet for my Korean food needs. They serve home cooked Korean food after every service and they’re good. However, what made me return every week was the new priest from Busan who was really welcoming to me. Being one of the only teenagers there, he even gave me a position as altar server. Also with my late grandfather being a very devoted catholic, I felt at home connecting to god, and connecting to my family through him. By reconnecting with religion and some Korean food, I found myself recharging every time I went to church. I also had my closest friends, Jeongho and Matthew. We lived together for three years, and they are like my brothers now. Although we often argued about dumb stuff like why you shouldn’t have rice with chopsticks, we had a lot of fun together. I remember the three of us going to cars and coffee on saturday mornings, or the regular trips to Target to buy useless stuff. I’m grateful for these guys, always being by my side throughout the years. And on top of that, I was lucky enough to have Major Claburn and his family to let me stay at their house over one of the breaks. Mrs.Claburn treated me like her own son, and would invite me over for dinner often. Julia and William were like the annoying siblings I never had, and Major, although not too talkative, cooked me the best steak dinners with his grill setup. They provided me with the warmth of family, and some warm and delicious t-bone steaks. Realizing the support of all these people around me, I was able to dust myself off and pull myself back together. This time I decided, I’ll set achievable goals for myself, and each time I complete those, I'd set new goals that were, again, easily achievable. I started by taking cold showers everyday, cut down on caffeine and sweets, and worked out more often. Since then, things have been back to good for me. I ended my junior year with pretty good grades, a satisfying SAT score, and most importantly, a good living habit. Now, as a second semester senior, I am still working on being better than who I was the day before. It’s a work in progress, and it all started from that one shower thought. As coach P says, quitting is the easiest way out. Never give up. Keep pushing, and be better than who you were the day before. All of your smallest efforts will add up, and someday you’ll start noticing your improvements. There will be challenges along the way, but just remember that you are never alone. While it is great for you to try and navigate through those challenges on your own, don't be afraid to ask for help to defeat those challenges. Thank you.
It was another sunny spring day in my fifth grade year, and I was rushing to finish my breakfast because I did not want to cause my family to be late. We were on our way to St. PJ’s Children’s Home to participate in a volunteer project. I was very excited because we had never been to St. PJ’s before, and I had been told that there was a basketball court for me to play on with my friends after the project was over. After a quick 30 minute drive, we arrived at the orphanage, and I jumped out of the car to greet all of my friends. We worked for about half of the day cleaning bedrooms, sweeping kitchen floors, organizing bookshelves, and various other chores that would help the staff and residents. After the cleaning came the part I had really been looking forward to: playing. Some people went to play board games. Some people went to the arts and crafts area, and my friends and I went outside to play basketball. We split up into two teams–each team was a mix of kids from the volunteer group and kids who lived in the orphanage. The game lasted about thirty minutes, after which we all went inside to feast on the various snacks and juices provided to us. The volunteer project described above was fairly routine to me as volunteer work has been an important part of who I am for my entire life. Both of my parents came from humble beginnings, and they completely uprooted their lives for my brother and me. They came to this country with nothing to their name, and even after their decades of hard work to reach the place they are now, they continued to stress the importance of giving back to the less fortunate. My parents believed that their children should see the value of helping other human beings for no other reason than just to help. Therefore, my brother and I have been attending monthly volunteer projects since before we could remember. One of my earliest memories includes standing on top of an empty banana crate just so that I could reach over the table to help hand out bread at Haven for Hope, a homeless shelter in San Antonio. Although I have helped out at these projects since I was a young child, I never truly understood the importance of what I was doing. I simply saw the projects as a fun way to spend my Saturday afternoon with my family. However, that changed after the St. PJs' project. I made a lot of new friends that day, as spending the entire morning and afternoon cleaning and playing basketball provides ample opportunities for conversation. I specifically remember meeting one kid named Josh. Josh was my age and we shared many interests. We were both huge San Antonio Spurs fans, and we were both infatuated with the new Kevin Durant shoes that had just been released. From our favorite TV show (Avatar the Last Airbender) to the fact that we both had older brothers, we discovered many similarities and became very good friends that day. I still remember making my dad drive me all the way back to the orphanage the following weekend so I could give Josh my Spurs hat, as I had one to spare. Afterwards, while I was thinking about Josh, I wondered about what separated us. When we met we were both just kids who had done nothing but exist. Our contributions to the world were exactly the same, and we as people were very similar. Josh looked and acted like me and my friends at school yet we were all able to go home and give our parents and hug everyday, and he wasn’t. It was clear after some consideration that there was nothing that separated us; I had done nothing to earn the more fortunate life I was living, just as he had done nothing to deserve losing his parents. Our lives were only different because of the accident of our births. As I started to understand just how lucky I am, I also understood how important it would be to remember that very moment. This realization contributed to my personal growth and changed how I understand my place in this world. Without it, I might have gone through life assuming that all I was given is normal. I might not have fully appreciated how fortunate I am to have something as simple as a good family and a good group of friends, and I may never have realized how easy it is to take things for granted–I am admittedly still occasionally guilty of it to this day. Recognizing one’s privilege is a difficult thing to do. But it has changed the way I approach all aspects of my life. This can take the form of small actions such as picking up a random piece of trash or telling someone I like their outfit, or it can be in bigger sentiments such as dedicating my weekend to help raise funds to support the education of children in underprivileged countries. And most importantly it has taught me to look at the world through a lens of unconditional gratitude. By doing these sorts of things, I hope my path through this world will be defined by kindness, respect, and appreciation for the blessings I have been given. TMI, I challenge you to do the same. As our chaplain, Father Ben, preaches, there is not enough room in our hearts for both misery and gratitude, and while I understand it is easy to be defeated by all of the challenges life throws your way, make sure you are fighting to stay positive and appreciate the blessing you have been given as well as spreading them to those who need it. This does not mean sacrificing your weekend to go make food for the homeless. It can be a text to a friend who is struggling in school. It can be a thank you to your parents for all they have done. It can also be a simple prayer in your mind thanking God for your health and happiness. Thank you and Happy Birthday to my Chapel Talk Coach Mr. Ridewood.
I love my parents. I have been blessed with parents that love me unconditionally and are able to provide for me. They’ve worked so hard to give me a better life than they experienced when they were young. A better life of living, better education, and a lot of love. They were very determined and through all their perseverance made it in America. My mom was born on December 3rd, 1967 She grew up in Baghdad, Iraq. When my mom was growing up she was relatively safe. She lived with her grandma, grandpa, uncles, and aunts for most of her life in one house. She didn’t have privacy or her own room since she lived in a crowded house. Her dad wasn’t in her life. The time she saw her dad was at age 6. Her dad was always a busy man. He’d been working in Saudi Arabia for 9 years trying to make good money. When living in that house my mom was trained from an early age to learn how to clean and cook. She couldn’t play outside unless there was a guardian watching her whilst having a curfew. When going to school she had to walk to each of her schools from elementary to high school. The schooling system had a mix of boys and girls this was up until 7th grade; when the schools separated the boys and the girls into their own different schools. Her dad came back and builds a house and opens up a business for her future at age 13. My mom was enrolling in high school when Iraq and Iran went to war. The war itself lasted from 1980-1988 but the devastation my mom went through was terrifying. Constant alarming air raid sirens, electricity cutting in and out sometimes for days with no electricity, drinking water depleting, and sometimes they had no food at all. She would hide under trees since there were no bunkers outside to hide under. She would even go on top of rooftops and watch the bombers do a run-by bombing power plants. Even through all of this struggle my mom still went to high school a 10-minute walk in the heat of the danger. She’d eventually graduate from high school and get her driver’s license now at the age of 17. 1985 She would be put into an arranged marriage meeting my dad and marrying him and fleeing the country all around the age of 17. This led to a brand new chapter in my mom’s life. My dad had a very different childhood from my mom. He was born on May 2nd, 1956 but due to a mix-up of papers, he was automatically given a default birthday of July 1, 1957. He lived in a house that was made up of mud and wood. He shared the roof of the house with his mom, dad, two sisters, and two brothers. Their house had no individual rooms. They slept all on the floor. He lived by mountains in a rural area. He had no electricity, no gas, and there weren’t any cars only horses and donkeys. The village consisted of 15 families all were Christians. When my dad was around the age of 6, Iraq was in a war with the Kurdish the first of many wars with the Kurdish. This war would go from 1961-1970. One day my dad woke up and began his day as normal eating breakfast, and getting ready to start work, around noon he heard flying. He went outside and saw it was an Iraqi bomber plane, soon his entire village is engulfed with bombs. The Iraqi government thought the village was harboring Kurdish people. Even though the Kurdish wanted to take his village. Eventually, he and his family made it out of there and walked to a nearby village 2 hours away. They crossed mountains and eventually made it to the village. But, his sister who was 1 at the time had passed away. They just lost their house and a family member, at age 6 my dad became a refugee. They had to bury her in the village, they put a wooden cross as her gravestone. Over time they would leave the village and have their eyes set on settling down in Baghdad. They lived in better housing conditions, there was electricity and gas. His parents had another 5 kids, 1 girl, and the rest boys. They eventually owned a grocery store. They had my dad in school but my dad didn’t love school. My dad would fall in love with soccer and would purposely skip school to play soccer. When his parents found out they were angry and he dropped out of school in 3rd grade. Years later he fled Iraq at the age of 15 and moved to Lebanon so he could avoid being drafted into the Iraqi army. He left Iraq without anyone. When living in Lebanon he became a painter painting house interiors. Making enough to survive. He makes friends to keep him company. But then the conflict between Muslims and Christians lead to an all-out war. This led to restrictions and those restrictions made it harder to find jobs. My dad and his friends were frantically looking for work so they could survive. They took any job even if it meant burying dead bodies. In 1976 my dad at 18 years old moved to Athens, Greece under the Church World Service. This allowed him to become an American citizen and he’d set to leave for Chicago just 6 months later. He’d live with some of his friends he met in Lebanon. Taking up different types of jobs. Such as construction, working for Zenith the TV company, and a plastic company. He’d stay in Chicago until 1979, when he moved to Detroit, Michigan. Living in Detroit he had moved into 6 mile. It’s regarded as a very bad neighborhood. But through the bad, that loomed my dad he found a way to make money in a way he loved. He was on a soccer team that the club manager paid him for playing. It was known as the Iraqi team since the team consisted of a lot of Iraqis.  He would play left and right defensive but usually plays sweeper. His club manager also ran a liquor store and my dad would also work there from time to time. In his last couple of months out in Detroit, he worked in a factory making Chryslers, getting his family documents set so they can come to America. He was able to get his family to America in 1984 and met them in Detroit, where they all would move to California. He would become a manager of a liquor store and work at Western Wheels making rims for cars working those 2 jobs for 5 years. 1985 He would marry my mom due to his sisters and parents that knew my mom and would set him with an arranged marriage with my mom. They both would live in his parent’s house and my mom would give birth in 1986 to my sister. Then my brother. Then my other brother. Then my other, other, brother. They all would stay in California till 1999 where’d they moved to Houston. Where my dad became business partners with another guy in running an auto glass shop. There was another location in San Antonio. Nearing the end of 1999 they would move to San Antonio. My dad would take over the auto glass shop there within 6 months he’d completely own it. When September 11th happened both of my parents weren’t scared as they’d faced horrors before they’d seen it all. All they feared was god. Then on October 29, 2004, I was brought into their world. All was good and the rest is history. The main thing to take away from my parent’s success story is that anyone can do anything they aspire to do. They’re from two different social classes, different ages, different experiences, different education levels, and different backgrounds. Even though they are both different they still tried their best to make their situation best for themselves. My mom still went to school and get her driver’s license when they’re was an active war going on. That requires a lot of determination. My dad when left everything behind to move to a different country by himself at age 15 so he can get his family eventually in America. That requires a lot of perseverance. These are very extreme examples of perseverance and determination. Most people lose determination after a small loss and give up right then and there. Apply yourselves to be determined to anything, whether it be studying for a quiz, setting some personal goals, or going to college. Apply perseverance in practicing anything, and be persistent in doing something you love, whether it’s your basketball shot, learning new topics, or in doing more for yourself. That’s all I ask for the students of TMI to practice. No matter what your parents do, or how much they make, it doesn’t matter, all that matters is that you’re determined and persistent to achieve your goals in the end. Because at the end of the day all your parents want is for you to make it in life. So to the students what are you going to do with yourselves in life? Thank you.
“I am smart. I am smart. I am smart” I repeat to myself over and over again. It is my mantra. It is what has always defined me. My intelligence. My wit. My entire sense of self worth has come from the validation I have received by being told that I am smart, I didn’t even have to work for it. I just was.
I am one of 6 kids, growing up everything felt like a competition. Who was the best behaved? Who helped the most around the house? Who was the best at mario party? Who was the best at singing? It all felt like one massive triathlon, with the grand prize being attention. I quickly ruled myself out of most of those competitions, but the one thing I decided I could stand my ground in was the smart competition, so I chose that one to focus my energy on. I didn’t care that I wasn’t the most athletic in my family, or the funniest, or that I wasn’t the best at singing. I cared about the “who was the smartest” competition. I made the right choice. I got all the praise and affirmation I could ever need because of this. Ever since I was little, I was in the gifted program; I always had the most A.R. points; I always had the best grades. The adults around me went crazy, fawning and preening over the little “genius” they had in their midst. The constant praise I got from the adults in my life, for doing what was for me the bare minimum, became my everything. They told me the info that came to me naturally and that my love of reading made me different from all the rest. That I was worthy because of my intelligence and it consumed me. Even as young as elementary school, grades were what I cared about. I would compare the grades on different assignments with the other kids in my class, and because I was always on top there I moved on the the next rung of the ladder: the other kids in the gifted and talented program. I was placed there because I did well on a test. A test I took at 5 years old determined where I was in comparison to other students. A single test, that determined my courses at that school, told me that I was better than the other kids, that I was smart. I thought tests were awesome after that; they were the repeated affirmation that I was smart. As I got older, the other kids caught up. I came to realize that I wasn’t smarter than them, or at least not to the degree I had previously believed. There are many other kids who were able to get straight A’s. There was always the nagging voice in the back of my head though, telling me I needed to be just slightly smarter than them. It was a new competition, with more, stronger players. I believe it was around there, around 5th grade that my grades, the score of how smart I am, the score of my value as a person, became an obsession. I was always told my grades were the key to my future. My parents are immigrants. Education. Is. Everything. I needed good grades to get into a good high school. And I needed good grades at that good high school to go to a good college. And I would, of course, need good grades at that good college to have a good future.These kind of thoughts fed into my frenzy. The stakes of my game have gotten higher. I checked my grades obsessively, to verify that I was, in fact, still smart, to the point that I was staring at them at least 7 times a day. I wouldn’t want to fall behind now, would I? Being placed in a regular level class, when honors was an option, was unacceptable. I don’t know why others couldn’t see that as clearly as I did. I continued throughout middle school that way, and high school came in a blur. In high school, in addition to being smart, I decided to try my hand at being a model student. I took the hardest classes I could get my hands on. All APs please. I also did as many extracurriculars as possible. 3 sports a year, plus so many clubs, that honestly I don’t even think I remember them all well enough to rattle them off. There would be days where I would be here, at TMI, for over 14 hours, 6 am to 8:30 pm. I quite literally lived here. I mean I was here more than I was at my house. On top of that I was having to do all my homework for the classes I chose to take once I got home. Afterall, I couldn’t have any teacher thinking of me as anything less than a perfect student, and a late assignment would most definitely qualify as being less than perfect. It. was. Exhausting. I was drained. For months at a time I would just do school, collapse, and repeat. I didn’t have energy to talk to my friends. I didn’t have energy for my family. Any moment I had free I used to rest. I got myself through it by saying it’s all for college. The extracurriculars were all for the resume. The grueling classwork was all so I had the grades to get scholarships for wherever I needed. I didn’t care about the decline of my mental and physical health, there was all a point to it… or so I thought. Junior year ended and I was on such a high. I was winning the game. I was doing every little thing I wanted, my grades were phenomenal. I was winning. I finished the year and my unweighted average was 96.93. 96.93. My value as a human, the value of my self worth all boiled down to a simple numerical value. I am worth 96.93 on a scale of 100.Then the other shoe dropped. I was not in the top 10% of my class. When I found out that I wasn't in the top 10%, that I, in fact, didn’t make it, something inside me broke. I was so confused and upset. I mean I have never gotten a B in my life. I am 96.93. To frame what a shock this was to me, some more context is needed. I have a better average than my older sister did, my older sister who was salutatorian of her class, my genius older sister who narrowly missed valedictorian, and my older sister who got a full ride to college + study abroad. I had achieved everything I wanted. In my competition I had won, I was the smart kid. So, 96.93 which was enough to beat the smartest person I know, wasn’t enough? It wasn’t enough to be in the top 10%? To me, it meant I failed. I had become everything I had ever wanted, and I still didn’t win. I am officially my family’s most “academically gifted” child and I, and everything that I am, everything I did was not enough. I felt worthless. I called Alex sobbing and we talked for a while, and I came to realize a few things. One, the past is in the past. There was nothing I could do to change what had happened, so the situation wasn’t worth all the energy I was giving it. I had to accept it and move on. Two, my “big problem” was one that was entirely of my own making. Grades are important, but I’ve realized they are not the end all be all. They’ll help you get into college, but they’re not a good or healthy measure of who you are as a person. I put all my self worth into a meaningless metric. I judged myself by it, and it was wrong. I defined myself by this metric my entire life and I was confronted by the realization that it was an empty measure of self worth, success, and happiness. Deriving my self worth from academic validation is a dead end. School ends eventually, and what is left after that? Grades are meaningless after graduation. The metric for success in your life is entirely arbitrary. It comes from within, so how could anyone be successful in life if the thing they derived their success from is gone. And as for happiness, I wasn’t happy. Staying at school for 14 hours didn’t make me happy. Joining a million clubs and programs didn’t make me truly happy, what they made me was stressed. Stressed about fitting it all into my schedule and stressed about giving each thing my all. How could I, when I was stretched so thin? It’s now my senior year, and I have to pick up and start figuring out who I actually am outside the framework I put myself in. I’m not entirely sure who I am outside the old definition of myself, but that's okay. I’m only 17, I’ve realized I don’t know as much as I thought I did, and moving forward I have so much time left to figure out new, and actually meaningful ways to define myself. That’s one of the primary purposes of college, even though it’s contrary to what Mr. Ridewood would have you believe. My earlier self perception didn’t make me happy, so why would I stick by it? Starting over in your understanding of yourself is okay. While I’m not entirely sure who I am, I do know a few things that actually make me happy and provide meaning: my friends and family. As I remember highschool they are the things I’ll remember. Not a grade I made on a test once upon a time. Never once have I been reminiscing and been like “remember that one time I spent studying?”. I think about the memories I made with my friends and my family. Looking back, I wish I hadn’t used grades and school to define myself. I wish I had spent more time doing things that actually matter instead of stressing about school and doing extracurriculars that I didn’t truly love. I wish I had taken the time to enjoy my experience here and spent more time with my friends, because I only have one year left with them. I like using the memories that I made with them as a way to define myself. They're always there and they make me happy; they’re not some unattainable standard that is always being raised; they are concrete, real, and meaningful. Defining yourself by your grades and academic success isn’t going to make you happier. I know at TMI we have this culture of wanting to be successful, of wanting to be the best at everything we do, and this is a worthy goal, but we shouldn’t let it be all consuming. I encourage you to learn from my experiences and my mistakes. Being smart was not everything, nor was being the best at whatever it is you do. Take a step back and evaluate whether or not you’re truly happy with who you are and where you are. You have value aside from whatever metric you have decided to grade yourself by, and that’s enough. Thank you. 
“Not all that COUNTS can be COUNTED, -and not all that can be COUNTED, -COUNTS” Originally I had Two chapel talks, and Fr. Ben said “You only have ONE talk” so I had to make it count. I’m Going to tell you a couple of stories that have taught me what really counts. Picture this. - It's the first day of high school and I am brand new to TMI. I have my new uniform on, with some fresh khaki shorts and I am nervous yet excited to see what TMI is all about. My parents dropped me off at the flag circle and I headed into the gym for a meet and greet for new families and students. Once I got inside I saw countless new faces talking to each other and I felt overwhelmed. There were free breakfast tacos, - so naturally, I grabbed two. I ate one and stashed the other in my pocket. Then I walked outside of Frost and stood under the MacArthur statue where I met Sergio Ostos and Bryce Small. We talked for a bit and I felt like I had made some of my first friends at TMI. Eventually, the bell rang for chapel. So I go to drop off my stuff at my locker and as I put my backpack down I realize there's a stain all over my pants. - I left a loaded-up Bacon Egg and Cheese taco wrapped in foil in my pocket - leaving a huge grease stain. It looked like I peed my pants! I was so embarrassed. But I still had to carry on with my day. As I’m walking towards chapel I run into Evan Amsler, I didn’t know him well at the time but surprisingly that didn’t stop him from ignoring the obvious. - He could have taken the easy route by roasting me for my taco-stained pants. - - instead, this person, who later became a friend, chose the hard route. He looked past the ridiculous stain on my pants and met me with empathy and compassion. - The way I was treated in such a vulnerable position made my first impression of TMI stand out. I could tell This school was different. - and that COUNTS to me. TMI has done a great job of helping me see the power  - of empathy and understanding in a community. Even in things like a team road trip. One of the most impactful experiences I've had at TMI was last year's trip to Dallas for lacrosse. Now, this wasn't just a fun road trip, - this trip changed our team. -  this was by far the most special group I've ever been a part of. This trip consisted of driving up for our first game Friday - having a day to rest Saturday - and another game Sunday, then driving home. Our whole team was in the same Hotel -  and our rooms were intentionally organized to remove us from the comfort of the teammates we knew best. The thought behind this was to make us build new connections with teammates we might not always hang around. - Now if you thought we were just a ton of Lax Bros that all got along you're wrong.  We had Cadets -  football players - student government - swimmers - basketball players - cross country runners - musicians - people in the drama club -  Bros Club -  stock market Club -  FCA -  and so much more. From freshman to senior we were all different. During that Saturday's rest, we spent our whole day just around each other and that's what made the difference. There were no clicks or groups we were one team and because of that people felt more welcome and included. This trip challenged us to leave our comfort zone and come together,  and as I got to know the people around me, - my perspective changed. Everyone on that team bought into that Brotherhood and because of that, we were all able to let our guards down and truly connect. Having those types of relationships with all different types of people is important, - and that COUNTS to me. Through those experiences, I have learned so much. TMI has also given me the opportunity to challenge myself in the classroom. On paper I'm successful, I've earned a high GPA and succeeded in AP  and honors courses. -  But is that what really counts? -  - Last year I watched the movie race to nowhere, where I felt like someone had courtside seats into my brain. The film expressed for the first time what I could never articulate but had felt for so long: “ not all that COUNTS can be COUNTED, and not all that can be COUNTED COUNTS”.  Although succeeding academically is important the things that really matter are not always measured. Taking the time to understand others' positions and showing kindness and Grace to them will make a real difference in your life and the lives around you.  You won't receive promotions, - or be given medals - but the difference you can make is what actually counts. Instead of giving all of your attention to everything that is in front of you focus on now. - notice the little things about the people around you.  choose to be the Difference Maker - And take risks to get to know the people in your community. to all you seniors, we all know how fast it seems that time has gone by, it wasn't that long ago that I left a Taco in my pocket on the first day of school. These are some of the last days that you will be surrounded by the people who are around you right now. You only have a couple more months to be this close to your immediate family. - These are the good old days - now - today.  Don't take anything for granted. To the rest of y’all, especially Juniors. - When you're seniors you too will look back and wonder where time has gone. So focus on making today matter.  Thank you, TMI for teaching me the meaning of what really counts. My life And the person I am has changed because of the lessons I have learned here. THIS COUNTS TO ME, AND I HOPE IT COUNTS TO YOU TOO. GOING TO TELL YOU A COUPLE OF STORIES OF WHAT I THINK COUNTS
Waking up to the sound of birds with the sun shining through the trees suddenly turns into the sound of construction and massive buildings blocking the light and casting a gloomy shadow into my room. The mountain I grew up on where you could drive for miles only seeing nature suddenly became driving through traffic with skyscrapers surrounding the view. For most of my life I grew up in Waynesville, North Carolina. It was a town where there wasn't much to go and do,  but there was a lot to see. The school I attended was small, and there wasn't much to do besides go to the youth center that would be open for kids after school. Having my friends live right around the corner, most of the time I spent with them was at the youth center or one of our houses. This all changed when I found out we would be moving out of Waynesville after I lived there for the past seven years. My family told my sisters and I we would be moving to the city of Charlotte, which was a very different environment that I was not used to. It was hard leaving the place I had grown up in for so long, but I was glad to be able to experience something new. Leaving the friends I grew up with and the place I called home wasn't easy in the slightest. Arriving in Charlotte, the first few months were hard getting used to the environment and making friends in the middle of the year, but over time adapting to this new life got a lot easier. There was a lot more to do and see. If I wanted to go see a movie in Waynesville, it was about a twenty minute drive. In Charlotte, it was five minutes away.  It was shocking with the variety of things you could do within a ten minute drive. I went to get hibachi for the first time there and ever since then I have gone every year for my birthday as a tradition. My sister having her fencing practices ten minutes away, for about a year everyday after school I would have to go with her and wait. Instead of doing my schoolwork, I would mainly mess around in the gym that they had. Over time I grew interested and eventually started going to practice with her. After the countless times I would trash talk her, I was quickly humbled after going a not so fair 0-15 against her. I still believe I was given a defective cord but it's ok, I'll give her the benefit of the doubt. Over time I started traveling with my sister to the fencing tournaments, and after about two years of practicing and competitions we both qualified for nationals in 2013. Well…not really… The story I just told you was made up and fabricated to seem true. My life was not that simple growing up, but I wish it had been. I was the infamous military child, which to me I personally didn't know what the feeling of (home) meant. Instead (adapting) is the word that epitomizes the twelve years of my life before I moved to Texas. I have lived in two different countries, moved four different times and attended ten different schools. Going to school in Germany, it was hard communicating with classmates being the only kid that spoke English and little to no German. Moving schools was something I was just used to. I would move in the middle of the year.  Nothing was ever consistent. I did many different sports, but gymnastics was what I was planning to do in college. After a broken foot followed soon after by a long term back injury that was getting worse, I was forced to quit and move on from that dream. This talk was never to tell you a story of my upbringing or where I came from, this is about misperception. I could stand on this stage and say pretty much anything and make the background of my life believable to a lot of you. I am not the only person this week who has misrepresented their lives to you: whether on social media from an influencer you follow or somebody you know in everyday life.  What seems to be most important to people these days is what they see now, not the past, not the journey, now. We tend to look at the current moment, but usually don't focus on the rest. Every person in this room comes from a different background, and everyone has had a different path that has gotten them to where they are at now.  We tend to observe current information and use that as a basis to compare the position of others in retrospect to our own. Social comparison theory suggests that people compare themselves to others, ultimately as a way to assess the value and status of their own personal and social worth. Studies show this theory of comparison makes up as much as 10% of our thoughts. There are four different ways of comparison and each one has a different psychological effect. Upward Comparison is comparing oneself to the people who are “more knowledgeable than you”. Downward Comparison is comparing oneself to the people who are “less knowledgeable than you”. Now what is important to understand are the Positive and Negative comparisons for each one which develop different mentalities. Positive Upward Comparisons help people push to succeed by acquiring inspiration and personal goals from the people who have more knowledge while Negative Upward Comparison tends to bring people to be discontent with their status and have low self esteem because of a person who are or seem to be well off. Positive Downward Comparison allows for appreciation of a person's status as it could be worse, while Negative Downward Comparison can make people become arrogant and unappreciative. All four of these types of comparisons have very different effects on the brain, and not everyone responds the same to them. If you think of someone right now who you'd say is better than you at something, whether it's a sport, school subject, activity, anything, do you get jealous of their status and get annoyed, or does it motivate you to do better. On the flipside side, think of someone who is not as good as you. Do you hope to see them succeed and help them to do so, or do you want them to remain on a lower level than you? I want to focus on one of these four, Negative Upward Comparison, and how it has been a significant reason for the path I have had throughout life. For most of my childhood I used to compare myself to one person, the person who in my eyes seemed to have it all. That person was my sister, Meredith. It's normal for the younger siblings to look up to the older one but early on in life comparing small differences between the accomplishments of hers in proportion to my own accumulated a snowball effect that would only get worse as time went on. Throughout most of my life I would see all of my sister's accomplishments and as much as I was proud of everything that she had done, I grew quite jealous of her achievements because I wanted to accomplish what she had. I drew myself into a pit where no matter what I did I wouldn't think highly of my achievements because I believed It wasnt comparable to the ones of my sister. And even though she and I did very different activities, sports, and academics, I still seemed to focus on hers more than my own. Around 6th grade was when my life's path split into two, one for my own goals and the other to obtain the achievements of my sister. I started to develop a problem that prohibited personal growth. What went from comparing my sister's achievements to the ones of my own turned into comparing the life I lived to people I saw on the internet and the ones around me. By the end of my freshman year, I used social comparison so much that it just became normal and how I would go throughout life. I was stuck on what's known as the Hedonic Treadmill. The Hedonic treadmill is the analogy that once desire or progress is obtained, we adapt to it and that becomes the set median for happiness. It was hard to appreciate my success, because there wasn't an end point, just a finish line that never got any closer no matter how much I ran. Sophomore year came around and for 16 years I would have my accomplishments valued by the ones of others, but as I was the last one in high school, and Meredith left for college, it was the first time there wasn't somebody I was trying to catch up to. In fact there was nobody I was trying to catch up to, because for that whole year I mainly isolated myself in my room, becoming introverted and distant from the life outside my house. Now this made me realize the absolute mess I had created for myself, but it's fine because I could use that time to figure out who I was and who I wanted to be… that in fact did not happen. I tried to, but I clearly didn't learn my lesson the first time because I fell back into the loop of doubt and comparison. I wouldn't stop trying to use people I saw as a way for me to reach my unreasonable goals. I found stuff that I wanted to do and then just a few weeks later completely shifted my interest. I think my parents had to listen to about 20 different interests and career choices I had over that year. I would spend hours every day obsessing over an interest that I eventually got tired of it pretty quickly. I burned myself out, so at this point, I was more confused of the person I was and the one I wanted to be. If the phrase “I don't know” was a person, that was who I was. 16 years of comparing myself to other people is what got me to that point and yet it was the place I had to get out of. This leads me to the fifth method of comparison and the most important one: Self Comparison. For the longest time I was caught up in comparing myself to others, but I never stopped to recognize personal growth.  In order to recognize growth and push to obtain personal achievements, by far the most important person you need to compare yourself to is your own self. The only way you are truly going to be able to determine success and progress is from the person you were in the past. That is what I failed to learn and what got myself into the position I was at a year and a half ago. It always seemed as if I was one step behind, but I never saw that I was moving two steps forward. I still compare myself to others, not to be annoyed by the position someone is in compared to my own but rather as a way to determine progress between the person I am and the person I want to be. Don't be caught up in the destination between yours and someone else's because no one will have the same path as others will have throughout life. As much as we compare ourselves to others, make sure that it is for the right reasons and will help you become a better version of yourself, because at the end of the day you are the only person that you can rely on to make it to where you want to go in life.
Picture yourself in your most restful state. Are you watching your favorite movie? Eating your favorite meal? Growing up, mine was anytime my head hit a pillow. This was partially because I was always growing, but it was mostly due to my busy schedule. Since 6th grade, my life revolved around beach volleyball. After long practices in the hot sand, taking a shower and getting into bed was the best feeling in the world. Though I frequently felt drained, I became accustomed to this routine: school, practice, sleep, repeat. I even transferred to online school freshman year to focus on training. This transition also gave me the time I needed to rest. As an introvert, I loved the ability to sit at home all day. I spent ninety percent of my time alone with only my parents and sisters to talk to. As time progressed, though, things shifted. A few months into online school, my family went through some changes. My sisters, mom and I moved out of our house and adapted to a new lifestyle. Initially, I responded poorly. I started making excuses for why I couldn’t go to practice or why I wasn’t turning in my work on time, because I could. I took advantage of the changes my family and I were going through. As a result, my passion for volleyball began to drift, and my overall motivation depleted. 
I spent day after day doing what I used to look forward to: resting with my head on a pillow. I didn’t realize how bad this was at the time, though. However, my mom used her mother's instinct and saw this much more apparently than I did. She informed our relatives of our situation, and my aunt drove down from Dallas despite her and my uncle’s upcoming plan: a hiking trip to Utah With both my mom and aunt having a mother’s instinct, they made an arrangement so my twin sister and I could join my aunt and uncle on this unexpected getaway. 
As I scanned through images of Zion National Park on my phone, I couldn’t help but have an ounce of dread as I imagined climbing rocks in the heat for days on end. I was at a place in which sleeping seemed the only suitable thing to do. But of course, I was excited and grateful for this trip. I was also full of anticipation. Having a mom who plans trips a year in advance, the spontaneity of it all was a completely new experience. Less than seventy-two hours later, I was on a plane to a place I had never heard of before. Seeming as though time wanted to test my patience, our flight was delayed three hours. In the meantime, my sister, aunt and I found a cozy spot on the floor. I spent some time on my phone, but I quickly got tired of repeatedly scrolling through social media. As I sat completely bored, I glanced over my shoulder to notice my aunt reading a thriller novel. Up until that point, I hadn’t considered myself a reader. I had tried reading here and there, but besides competing in Battle of the Books in second grade, I had never given it a real chance. I asked my aunt some questions about what she was reading, and, seeing my curiosity, she offered me a novel to read on her kindle. I was immediately sucked in. Before I knew it, it was time to board our final plane. We landed, met up with my uncle, hopped in the rental car, and headed towards Zion. Though I have seen mountains several times throughout my life, such as the ones in El Paso, I was in awe of this new landscape. Rocks of every shade of red and orange stretched as far as I could see. As the sun set, the colors became vibrant, and I couldn’t take enough pictures. Though I have raging car sickness, I felt completely calm. We eventually parked, headed to our hotel room, and recharged for our early morning. We woke to our alarm at four a.m.; We aimed to beat the heat for the majority of our first hike called  “Angels Landing”. I was not naturally a morning person. Waking up early felt like torture most days. However, I hopped out of bed much quicker this time. Though I was drowsy as I ate breakfast and changed clothes, there was a positive energy about the early morning. I immediately felt more productive. Back at home, I woke up no earlier than noon every day. I had created a lazy habit that not only made me feel gross but affected my work performance. I thought waking up early would make me tired, but in reality, that groggy feeling came from the bad habits I had created. As we walked to the rental car, I relished the tranquility of the sleeping town. The stars were the only source of light and the car engine was the only traceable sound as we drove to the hiking trail. This is when I realized I really am a morning person. When we finally arrived, I grabbed my water bottle and hiking stick and eagerly headed toward the trail. We twisted and turned up dirt pathways. It became hard to breathe as the air became thinner. We came to a curve so steep I had to push off my legs to keep walking, almost causing me to miss the view. We all stopped, drank some water, and turned around to see one of the best views I’ve ever seen. We were surrounded by massive orange cliffs that looked down on a river barely noticeable from how high we were. Everything seemed to glow as the sun began to rise. It was one of those views you only see on postcards. Though I could have stood there forever, we kept going. With many rest breaks, we finally reached the top. The sun had just begun to peak over the tallest rocks. I looked around at all the hikers, and they seemed just as excited to be there as I was. We found a flat rock overlooking the drop below, ate some peanut butter sandwiches, and relaxed. Though I was exhausted, sweaty, and still had puffy-morning eyes, I had never felt more rested in my life. I realized I had formed a false notion of what rest was. I considered excessive amounts of sleep “rest”. I had completely disregarded the importance of mental rest at the time I needed it most. I allowed myself to accept my current state rather than try to identify and solve the problem. At some point, I had confused rest and apathy. I defined rest as activities that took minimal effort rather than those that brought me peace. The dark, quiet mornings in Utah and the simple pleasures of nature redefined rest for me. I discovered that true rest comes from anything that helps you grow and discover new parts of yourself. Until then, I had not realized the sheer amount of things that brought me joy and made me feel productive. Soon after the trip, I sat down at the piano for the first time in years. I regained a sense of comfort I had felt as a kid. I also picked up a guitar for the first time. I am not Jimi Hendrix by any means, but it opened up a new part of me I didn’t know existed. My aunt helped spark my motivation to read. Though I still struggle, I do my best to stay off my phone and be present. If I had been on my phone in that rental car, I wouldn’t have the memories of teaching my uncle One Direction songs. If I had been on my phone in our hotel room, I wouldn’t have had many of the conversations with my aunt and uncle that made our trip so special. If I hadn't found the things that brought me joy and a sense of comfort, I don’t know where I’d be headed. I have become much more vulnerable and honest with myself, specifically the parts that I used to avoid. Had I figured out the sources of rest in my life sooner, I could have saved myself years of misguidance. In hindsight, I needed the misguidance to redirect me towards a healthier lifestyle. Life is a complicated thing that’s only going to get more hectic as we get older. Rest is a luxury that seems to become less available with time. It’s important to explore the things that make you feel rested now. Even if those things seem insignificant or ordinary, they will still lead to growth in one way or another. As I picture myself in my most restful state, whether that be today or in ten years, I see myself in nature, reading, and making music. That fact in itself brings me comfort. As long as I continue to search for new parts of myself, I know I’m on the right path. I ask that you consider what these things are in your life. I promise you; once you find those little things, they won’t feel so small anymore. Thank you.      
I want everyone to think of a place where you feel the happiest, the safest, and the most comfortable. It might be your home because this is the place where you’re constantly at to sleep, eat, and just relax. Your bed is here, arguably the most comfortable thing in the house.  Your family is here, arguably your favorite people in your life.  Your pets are here, arguably your best friends in the world. Another place you might be thinking of is your favorite sport.  There’s the basketball court, football field, outside track, or baseball field and maybe this is the spot where you are constantly going to take your mind off things, the spot where you’re the most focused, or the spot where you’re the most energetic. And this might be the reason why you find yourself joyful, content, and safe while playing your sport. Have you ever had the opportunity to experience traveling to an exotic place? Maybe there’s a specific vacation destination spot that you feel the happiest in.  I think everyone here knows about one of the more magical places in the country, Disney World. Disney World is often deemed as being “The Happiest Place on Earth”, maybe because of the excitement people get from riding those roller coasters with all the loops, drops, twists and turns. Maybe it’s from the fact that people can take pictures with life size versions of their favorite Disney characters such as Mickey Mouse, Cinderella, Darth Vader, or my personal favorite, Woody from Toy Story. Maybe it’s from the amazing different types of food you can try that’ll just give your stomach that perfect fulfillment after a long day of walking. Regardless of the reason people might like Disney World, my family loves going there because of the time we get to be away from our normal, everyday lives.  It’s a time where we can just go to a place that is so far away that we don’t have to worry about anything that is happening back at home. It’s a time where we can just be together, experiencing the wonders and creative works that Walt Disney had in mind when coming up with the theme park concept. It’s a time where my mom is able to force us to take countless pictures and videos so that she can save them and look back on the memories. It’s a time where we can also be forced into being “that family” with all the gray matching mickey mouse shirts that say “TAMEZ 2022 SUMMER VACATION”. Lastly, It’s a time where we can just reflect, smile, be joyful, and realize how blessed we are to have the means to be able to travel and enjoy the vacation. I’m betting you have a place that makes you feel the happiest such as playing a sport or going to Disney World to enjoy the rides and experience a burst of thrill and excitement.  My happiest place is somewhere you might find unusual. As much as I love family trips to Disney, and as much as I would love to spend time on a beach in an exotic country, the place that makes me feel the safest, the most comfortable, and the most joyful is in a small little town outside of San Antonio, which is known as the strawberry city of the United States, called Poteet, Texas. Now in Poteet, there are several little restaurants, shops, and outdoor food markets that makeup the city.  However, the place that sticks out to me is the small church that’s located right before you enter the main street, and this church is called RLC,or  Resurrected Life Church. RLC has been an established church for about six years now, and I have been attending this church since the day it was founded.  Throughout the years, we went through many trials and setbacks.  The church was forced to meet at three different building locations for four years before buying our own. We had to shut down because of Covid and our only solution was to have our service outside. Countless fundraisers were created in order to try and raise enough money to start construction. Troubling tasks were forced on us such as fixing AC units and broken pipes, and also having to spend many hours cutting the grass, sweeping the floors, and moving around construction materials.We didn’t have the financial capabilities that some other big churches had so we were stuck being the ones to come up with different ways to support the construction of our new Church building. However, through all of these tribulations and tough times, we continued to stay loyal and faithful to God in believing that he would take care of the church and this is exactly what happened. The church members and I never felt like it was a chore to clean and maintain the building because we knew that this Church would go on to positively impact and touch so many lives.  We were blessed with anonymous donations that would help us buy materials to keep the church building going.  The progress that was made in construction over the last year has been incredible, but like I said, this progress wasn’t done by professionals, most of the work that had been done to the building was from the people that attended our church. From putting up sheetrock and painting the walls, to installing light fixtures and doors, and even setting up all the TV’s, computers, and sound systems, the members of the church and I made our mark on the building. The reason why I find this church building to be my second home and to be so special to me is because everytime I enter through those doors it reminds me of all the hours we put in to complete the building, it reminds me of the teamwork, grit, and determination that was shown by everyone, and it reminds me of the fact that all the people in the church came together for one common goal, which was to build up God’s vision for us. Like I mentioned before, my family has been going to Disney World in Orlando, Florida for a couple years now and every year it’s an amazing trip. However, this past summer’s trip to Disney felt a little bit different.  At RLC, we were finally going to be hosting our very own summer camp called Vacation Bible School. During VBS, kids from all ages are able to come to our church for a week of games, food, dancing, singing, and overall learning more about God while also forming a relationship with Him. The only problem was that VBS was going to start the same week that my family was still going to be out of town, and because of this, I was going to be forced to miss the planning, setting up, and first day of the camp. Normally this wouldn’t be a big deal, except for this year, I was asked to be the recreational leader for the camp, which meant I would lead the games and do different activities for the kids. While I was away, I couldn't stop thinking about what was happening back at the church, how close they were to finishing the decorating, and I couldn’t stop thinking about how excited the kids would be on the first day. I started to realize how I missed being at the church.  I missed walking through those double doors and feeling a sense of comfort, I missed being able to greet the new visitors as they came to our church, and I missed being in the presence of God. I missed my second home. Despite physically being at Disney World, my heart was in Poteet, Texas As much as Disney and Poteet might seem like opposite places, they really do have more in common than you might think.  Disney World, which is supposed to be “the happiest place on earth”, and my small, little church in that small, little town aren’t that different. Disney World has kids running around in excitement because they get to see Mickey Mouse, but the church has people running around in excitement because they get to have a conversation with God through prayer.  Disney World is a place where people feel safe because they have so much fun, but church is a place where people feel safe because they know God is there with them. Disney World brings people together from different cultures, backgrounds, and ethnicities, but the church also accepts anyone and brings people together from different ways of life.  The idea of Disney World was thought up by Walt Disney, a man filled with creativity and new ideas, but the church was thought up by God, a God filled with love and prosperity. When I came back from our family vacation, I had an urgency to be back at the church building, an urgency to see my church family again, an urgency to be a volunteer and give back, and an urgency to be back in the place where I feel the most connected with the presence of God.  The church shows people love and it gives people hope. When facing tough times and going through daily struggles, God is there waiting for you.  He is always listening and willing to help us out.  This makes me feel a sense of comfort.  God is constantly looking out for us and making ways for us to be successful.  This makes me feel a sense of safety.  God is doing miracles behind the scenes.  This makes me feel a sense of joy. As the week of VBS progressed and I went back to the church, I was able to return to my role as recreation leader, and I was also able to see the excitement that the kids had while they were singing, dancing, and playing. To see the happiness in the children’s faces, it made me feel so joyful to know that others were having such a great time in my happy place. There was this one little six year old girl, named Callie, who was always so quiet whenever she was getting dropped off by her parents, but as soon as she entered through those double doors, her face would always light up because she was just so excited to be in a place where she knew she was going to have an amazing time. Callie’s joy will always be the reminder that I need to know that this is my place.  Callie was attending a Vacation Bible School in Poteet, Texas, yet her smile was as big as if she was about to ride Space Mountain at Disney. What I’m trying to say here is that while I was away from my church community, I started to miss it, even though I was in a place that was supposed to be the happiest place on earth.  And it made me reflect.  I thought “What if I never got to go back?” “ Am I taking my church family for granted?”  “What if I don’t ever get to feel the joy that I feel in that place with those people?” The presence of happiness, joy, and excitement can be anywhere, even in this very chapel, it doesn’t have to be in a beach in the caribbean, and this is when I realized that you don't have to go all the way to disney to be in the greatest place on earth because the greatest place on earth is the place where the spirit of God comes alive in you. And it made me commit to not taking things for granted. I hope that by now you have thought of the place that you feel the happiest, the place that you feel the safest, the place that you never want to leave from, and I hope that you learn to appreciate it more because there could be a day where you never go back. There could be a day that your happy place is changed into something else, and there could be a day where we don’t wake up that morning to experience happiness at our favorite place.  There’s a famous saying, which says that “Tomorrow is not promised”. However, God calls us to seize the day and live each day like it’s our last.  In the Bible, Psalm 118:24 says that “This is the day that the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it”. Remember that tomorrow is not promised, it isn’t guaranteed that we will live to see another day so we should live each day like it’s our last. I hope we can learn to take advantage of the days we are given.  We don’t need to go to Disney to find the peace we seek. A content and happy heart is closer than we think, in fact it’s usually right in front of us or literally within us.  Today I’ll be more appreciative of the blessings God has given me and I invite you to do the same.  Thank you. Where is home? Do you mean “Where have you lived the longest?”, “Where were you born?”,  or “Where did you live before here?”, because all of those questions have extremely different answers. Being military, my family always joked that we had no answer when somebody asks us where we’re from. When I was 10 years old, that was supposed to change after my dad left Army Active Duty. We could finally have some permanence an hour's drive from Frankfurt, Germany in a picturesque, hilltop village called Melkerei. My mom was livid when we learned about our drastic move to Europe. My dad had, once again, failed to consult the family whenever it came to relocation. The move was quite rocky at first. Upon our arrival, the US government placed us in temporary housing. It was the hottest summer on record, and we found ourselves on the third floor of a multi-family house without air-conditioning. My sister and I would frequently drag our pillows and blankets from the loft bedroom to sleep on the cooler living room tile floor. Within the first 9 months of our arrival, we had bought and renovated a concrete block home within walking distance to the Nanstein Castle. I chose my bedroom, the location of my skylight, and positioned my newly purchased German bed against the sloped walls and under the opened skylight window. Although, occasionally, I would forget to close the window during the thunderstorms and would return to a sopping wet mattress. Regardless of the consistent reprimands from my mom, I often climbed onto my roof and sat on the clay tiles to watch the stars for hours. My sister and I would bundle up and climb onto the roof to watch the fireworks on the best holiday: Slyvester or New Year’s Eve. This is one day of the year where Germans could break all rules and spend an inordinate amount of time and money firing crazy amounts of fireworks. From our roof overlooking the village, the explosions were sometimes so close that tiles would shake. It was like watching a war. It was wonderful. One extra element that defined my life in Germany was that both my sister and I were homeschooled. This meant that we could abide by our own schedules, start and finish the school day whenever we wanted, and take our work with us on trips. This additional freedom allowed us to do so much throughout our time there. We would frequently take the train, alone to nearby towns like Heidelberg, Trier, Saarbrucken. There we would walk the squares and get crepes and reisecke. After getting a Polish-born dark brown Welsh Cob legally named Limetree Melody Maker (known to my family as Stan), Equestrian jumping and dressage became my primary sport (Que horse-girl jokes). However, in order to ride in Germany, I had to pass the riding licensing tests known as the Reitabzeichen. Competitions exposed me to much of the culture, like the incomprehensible regional German dialects as well as the SuperDickmann sandwich, which is basically two chocolate-covered marshmallows in a sliced baguette. I absolutely loved my life in Germany. The freedom to explore, my wonderful horse, my German friends at the barn, and even my sweet German neighbors who adopted me as their own granddaughter by inviting me in for kuchen (cake) and gossip. My comfortable, yet fascinating life in Germany was once again turned on its head. The permanence that I had finally established dissipated when my parents decided that I should attend high school in America. Unsure of where my dad would find a new job, we took a gamble and moved to San Antonio. I moved with my mom, in August less than a week before school started. My sister had moved on to college, and my dad remained in Germany waiting on the US Government to officially move him back to America. So here I was in this hot, humid, traffic-filled monster of a city. America was ironically foreign, and I desperately missed the tranquility of the German forest. I was now separated from my dad, my friends, my horse, and my home by the vast expanse of the Atlantic Ocean. I felt utterly betrayed. I had allowed myself to become attached to a home and friends, and once again it was ripped away from me. However, I knew that my parents felt the same. They had altered the trajectory of their lives so that I could receive a 4-year high school experience. I realized that I did not want bitterness to define this opportunity, so I overcompensated. I involved myself in every extracurricular activity, club, and class that I could. I needed to make my family’s sacrifice worth it. This overcompensation accelerated during sophomore year as I elected to take more rigorous classes and join two volleyball teams, despite never having played before. Inevitably, the stress of my overextension began to wear me down both mentally and physically. Given there were not enough hours in the day, I ended up underperforming in various activities. I worked my body to the point of developing injuries that haunt me. I couldn’t maintain this pace, but I still desired something that would replace my happiness found in Germany. I had placed the responsibility and value of this life-changing  event on my own shoulders, and there was no way to live up to my own impossible standards. During one soccer game, I remember crying on the field from a consistent injury. Every step I took was agonizing, and I could barely run. I refused to ask my coach to sub me out because we were short on players. In my mind, to step off the field was an admission of defeat and a failure. My selfish need to prove that I was strong enough wasn’t just hurting me, but was hurting my team. Realizing that the obsession with my personal achievements was feeding my insatiable state of mind, I tried to emphasize helping others so that I could serve them instead of padding my own resume. Honestly, I wasn’t doing any fewer activities, but without hyperfocusing on my self-imposed pressure, I had more mental stamina. My junior year was the busiest and most stressful year by far, but it was the most rewarding. The time that I spent was focused more on genuinely being available for others —especially within the Corps. For example, I spent countless early mornings and late nights helping my classmates and cadets study, driving to buy reward donuts for winning marching competitions for my company, substituting for people who couldn’t make it to honor guard or make their shift as armory clerks, and driving my teammates home. I can easily reflect with an elevated sense of fondness because of the time that was spent on people other than myself. Honestly, I do more than ever, but it is much more satisfying. I find fulfillment in putting others before myself, and I have begun to understand that you can make (or break) any situation based on your attitude. Whether it be significant events or mundane days, all time will be made better with an optimistic and altruistic approach. I recommend approaching your day with a selfless attitude. I realized that I am never satisfied if I am focused inwardly, but am fulfilled when I forget myself and serve those around me. Serving others for the sake of others, not for resume building or people-pleasing, is an uncommon activity that brings lasting rewards. All of the people, places, and -yes- pets, will go on without me in Germany. Do I miss them all? Absolutely! But I can’t dwell on what once-was. This still leads me to the question: Where is home? Home is where you make it, and you can make any location home if you choose to invest it with your time and energy. Many of my peers will leave TMI in the coming months, and they may be faced with the same dilemma I faced coming to this very school. We will need to make the next chapter of our lives meaningful, we will need to establish a “home” even if only for a season. We must all do this by not only acknowledging where we have come from but also driving full steam ahead to our next destination. Looking back is often filled with sadness or regrets, but we must also write our next chapters in life. Locations, experiences, friends, houses, and the like —are just seasonal. They are just a small part of our whole story. Where you were born, lived the longest, or where you call home just gives background information, but what you do with your experiences, who you serve, is the basis for your character. 
If you were to join a Lacrosse team, what number would you choose to put on the back of your jersey? Perhaps your lucky number or the number of a famous athlete you admire? Maybe the number in your mind has a personal connection to you or a story behind it. I know the number 25 is near to my heart because it's the number that I have worn while I have played lacrosse at TMI. It is the number that I won a State Championship in and the  number I have worn while making long-lasting friendships and memories that will last forever.  Playing on multiple different sports and club teams growing up has resulted in me wearing a variety of different numbers. But having worn many numbers before, the number one sticks out to me as one of the most impactful because it represents family, kindness, and servanthood. My friend and teammate Taden was a fierce competitor who impacted every teammate on and off the field. He was often times one of the shortest kids on the field, but what he lacked for in height, he made up for with strength, skill, and pure aggression. He was the kind of player who would stop at nothing to win and he was the most competitive player on the field during games. But afterward, he was your best friend and acted like he didn’t just abuse your arm with his 6 foot dpole. Taden found peace when he was on the lacrosse field, whether that was with his school team or one of the various club teams he played for in the summer and fall. Unfortunately, he had torn his ACL during the spring season of 2021, even though he was sidelined, Taden loved nothing more than to watch other people succeed. He constantly worked to make everyone else better on and off the field-- whether teaching someone how to play the game of lacrosse, helping a classmate with a difficult math problem, or helping his friends strengthen their spiritual walk with Christ. Taden pushed all of his friends to be the best version of themselves that they could possibly be. He was the kind of friend who invited you to church every Sunday or sat with you at the lunch table if you were eating by yourself. During a lacrosse tournament in Virginia last June, Taden was still healing from his recent ACL tear. Taden and his dad had flown all the way out to Richmond, to support the team and some of his best friends. Taden knew he wouldn't be able to play the sport that he loved, but he was excited to watch all of his friends play and cheer us on throughout the weekend. The evening before the tournament, I was at the fields getting some extra practice to make sure my stick was throwing well after the long plane ride earlier that morning. About 30 minutes into my self-driven practice session, I heard my name shouted across the field complex, and to my surprise, it was Taden and another one of my other teammates. Taden, right off the bat, started talking to me about my trip to the east coast, and about how our summers had been. I had met Taden only a few times before that conversation, but by the end, it seemed like we were old friends who had known each other for years. Taden and I bonded instantly over three things, our love of lacrosse, our love of Jesus Christ, and a love for the outdoors. In fact, within an hour of the conversation, we had already made plans to drive up to Montana for a fishing trip the summer after our senior year. By the time we had finished our time in fantasy land, it was already 10 o'clock in the evening. So, we went to our hotels to prepare for the weekend ahead. Less than 8 hours later, at 7 AM on a Saturday morning, we met up again at the fields, ready to play our first game. As the day progressed, Taden was on our sideline, cheering us on as our hype man. Whenever the team would score or do something cool, you could hear Taden on the sideline going absolutely crazy. What seemed like every few seconds he was jumping up and down having to pick up his hat after it flew off his head falling on the ground. Likewise, when one of us on the team did something wrong, the coach he would get up in our faces and threaten to take us out of the game. A tsunami of spit would be flying out of his mouth and landing on our faces.   On a few occasions, I overheard coach tell a player to “go back to the baseball field because he has no place on the team” but he wouldn’t let people feel defeated, Taden would calmly explain to us what happened and what to do differently next time to prevent getting chewed out. In simple terms, Taden was the calm after the storm; scratch that, he was the calm after the category-five hurricane. Remember what I said about how the number one sticks out to me? Well, for every goal someone would score, Taden would do the number of pushups on the jersey of the person who scored, so if number 47 scored, he would do 47 pushups. Luckily for him, I wore the number 1, so it was a relief when I would score. Taden tallied to do about 975 pushups-- after only the first day of the tournament. Taden knew that he wasn’t going to be able to play, but he wanted to find a way to support the team and encourage us throughout the weekend. Taden realized how important it was to be a part of the team, even if he couldn’t play. He tried his best to make everyone else better, even when he was bound to the sidelines. One of the key principles of Taden’s spring lacrosse team, Dripping Springs, is defined by the term “Wolfpack”. This means that the entire team is a family regardless of skill level, where you come from, or what you look like. You had a place on the team and a group of 30 best friends who are there to help you out at any given moment. Taden knew how important it was for people to be on a team and that has the “Wolfpack” culture. He, at all times, tried his hardest to ensure that no matter the situation, he was someone you could rely on and look to for advice, comfort, or even just an ear to listen. Less than a week later, on July 3, 2021, I was sitting in the tech booth in the back of my church, when I got a Snapchat notification. I usually don’t check my phone during church, but for some reason I did. When I opened up my phone all I read was, Taden Died… Just a week ago, he was cheering his heart for our team. We had just made plans to go on a big fishing trip in Montana. I remember the drive home from church was hard, I wanted to cry and let it all out. But  fought the urge and managed to keep my emotions limited. But I was devastated. I was confused and was starting to ask questions. I was beginning to question my own faith, asking God why he took Taden away from us. How could something so bad happen to Taden and the rest of the Frickle Family? I got wrapped up in my own emotion, I have always been the kind of person who worries about everyone else’s emotions rather than my own. I bottled them up and didn’t talk to anyone about what had happened and was slowly shutting myself off from the rest of the world. I felt alone, not knowing what to do next looking for a solution to cope, I would spend hours locked in my room, away from my friends and family. This feeling and my questions went on for a few weeks until Taden's memorial service on July 16 at the Dripping Springs Lacrosse Field. At this service, unlike any other service I have ever been to, hundreds of people came out to support the Frickles and honor Taden's life.  As I arrived, feeling isolated, Taden’s dad came right for me, giving me a big hug to make sure I was doing ok despite his own personal grief. Almost immediately, my questions were answered: God showed me, how he has a plan for each and every one of us. I know for Taden, it was to live a Christ-like life and serve the Lord through all aspects of it. Taden loved the Lord with all his heart, and through his death, he was able to tell hundreds of people about the God that he believed in. After that night, I was at peace with what happened and was no longer confused. I was filled with reassurance because I know where Taden is. I know that he is spending the rest of eternity in Heaven with the Lord. I am honored to have had the ability to call him my teammate, friend, and brother. Even through death, Taden continues to serve. In his memory, Taden's parents created the Be16 foundation. Be16 is an organization to honor Taden’s life and keep his spirit alive. The organization gives back to the community through awarding scholarships to youth athletes to participate in club athletics, in which both Taden and his brother both played growing up. As you walk through life, you will face times when being kind isn't always the easiest option, but our time on this earth is limited. Tomorrow isn't guaranteed. Taden realized that. He always aspired to be the kindest person in the room, even through injuries, bad days, and rough times. One of my favorite verses that reminds me of how Taden lived his life is Proverbs 27:17, which reads, "As Iron sharpens Iron, so one person sharpens another." Taden never put the spotlight on himself. Instead, he put others over himself, constantly sharpening his teammates, friends, and family– his iron. So today, I challenge you to love like Taden. Day by day,  will face a choice, perhaps multiple a minute, with every person we come in contact with to be kind, reach out, and make an impact to better the life of someone else. Every time you wake up in the morning, think of Taden and how he chose to be kind, how he pushed everyone to be the very best, and how he chose to love. I believe a quote by Albert Einstien sums up this talk the best. “A life lived for others… is a life worthwhile.” Thank you. 
My favorite song lyrics come from a well-known Brazilian Bossa, Desde Que o Samba é Samba by Gilberto Gil and Caetano Veloso. The lyrics in Portuguese “Solidão apavora. Tudo demorando em ser tão ruim. Mas alguma coisa acontece no quando agora em mim. Cantando eu mando a tristeza embora.” For those who don’t understand Portuguese, these song lyrics approximately translate to: “The loneliness terrifies; The worst is yet to come; But something presently happens in me; By singing, I send the sadness away”. The meaning behind this musical poem is simplistic but memorable. The two songwriters wrote this song as an ode to their love for samba and the joy and comfort that they find from the music that makes all the loneliness and sadness in the world melt away.Although the English translation may not have been grammatically accurate, I find that the Portuguese verbiage is perfect just the way it is. For a long time, I was unsure of my identity. My legal identity has always been that I am a white Latina Brazilian-American with a pinch of Spanish ancestry from my Grandma’s side. My parents were both born and raised in Brazil, much like most of my family members; however, unlike the rest of my family, my parents’ plan for after they married was to move to the US for just a few years to finish up college and grad school and then to move back to Brazil to the comfort of their family. Funnily enough, the last bit of that plan never ended up happening, and a few years later, I was born here in Texas, destined to live the rest of my life as a fully-fledged American citizen. When I was starting to form words and speak back to my parents in fragmented baby sentences, the only language I would speak was Portuguese. My parents, who were still in the process of learning English at the time, would only speak Portuguese to me when they were home. On top of that, my vovó, (which means grandma in Portuguese) who didn’t speak a single word of English, took care of me for almost a year while my parents were working, so it wasn’t too surprising that English became my second language. Although I am much more comfortable speaking English now, I wish my parents had forced me a little more to keep up my Portuguese. The more I learned English in school, the less I was able to remember the almost perfect Portuguese I used to speak. Out of the house, there were barely any Portuguese speakers around me, so the way to ‘fit in’ was for me to learn English. This not only made my parents a bit disappointed, but also began my journey into the wormhole that was my identity. As I entered elementary school, there were a few surprises I encountered. Every year till approximately the 4th grade, when my peers were all bragging about our cultures and our parent’s origins, at least one person in my class would beg me, the only person of Brazilian ancestry in the school, to speak Portuguese for them as if it were a mysteriously enchanting alien language. Every time, without fail, I would proudly speak a sentence or two and amaze my classmates. I would say something along the lines of "Você não pode me entender, então posso dizer coisas malucas como você é burro como um jacaré.” They would ooh and aww to the sound of my silly sentences and would then bombard me with questions about my origins. Although I took pride in showing off my culture to my uneducated peers, I always felt a sort of anxiety about discussing my knowledge as I did not feel like a certified enough Brazilian to talk about the country and language. My quiet nature certainly didn’t help this original anxiety and over time I stopped talking about my culture entirely. Many of even my closest friends would mistake me for being Mexican or Colombian and through gritted teeth, I would have to explain their mistake. Moreover, I found myself trying to simplify the country to the overall vibes and emotions I had towards it instead of facts and society as a whole. One of the best ways I found of explaining it to my young peers was comparing it to the classic early 2000s movie, Rio. For those who are unfamiliar with the movie, it follows the story of a blue macaw that gets captured and taken from his home in Minnesota to the city his family was originally from, Rio de Janeiro. Although the movie is a comedic animated adventure that uses a lot of stereotypes and over-the-top characters, there was one aspect of big-city Brazilian culture that it got right: the Carnaval do Rio de Janeiro. When my parents used to have the International Globo Channel on the TV, I would beg for them to play the carnival every year on the days before Lent. The full stimulation of the bright rainbow array of colorful costumes and the loud samba music combined with the overall celebratory atmosphere would keep my eyes glued to the screen for many hours through the night. Although I was too young to stay up late watching the whole festival, I fell asleep dreaming of the music. Because of the connection to the carnival, I was in love with the samba my mom would listen to as she cooked. The more I would watch replays of the festivals, the more I felt disconnected from the very distant city I had visited so many times before. For that, I desired to become better connected to my heritage. Though I didn’t have much coordination when I was little, I would dance to the samba every day as if I were one of the dancers in the parade. In fact, I would take pride in dressing like the famous 1950s samba singer Carmen Miranda for Halloween and using my Folklorico practice skirt and a colorful fiesta top as a makeshift carnival costume. For a long time, I thought dancing and dressing up were the only things that connected me to my identity. This was until I discovered what would later become my favorite musical genre known as bossa nova. As opposed to the electrifying mix of different percussion instruments found in traditional samba, bossa nova has a more calming sound that many associate with cool jazz. According to the Brazilian journalist Ruy Castro, the main characteristic behind bossa nova known as “the bossa beat” was “an extreme simplification of the beat [from] the [traditional] samba school as if all the instruments had been removed and only the tamborim had been preserved.” Bossa Nova first appeared in the 1950s as a way to renew samba and modernize Brazilian culture. Bossa songs always speak of love, loss, and overcoming sadness through their beautiful melodies, words of love, and depictions of Brazilian scenery. All generations who grew up in Brazil know the lyrics to those old songs by heart. When my mother recognized my newfound interest in the genre, she suggested to me many of her favorite songs she had listened to repeatedly from her teenage years. When I started listening to the songs she recommended, I fell in love with the style and rhythm of the instruments. The mesmerizing lyrics soothed me. Just like how the lyrics to “Desde Que o Samba é Samba” talk about the music and singing melting all one's worries away, anytime I was overcome with sadness and not feeling myself, I would play some bossa nova and my bad mood would instantly vanish. One can do nothing but smile when songs like “Águas de Março” by Elis Regina come upon my playlist. As I became more and more obsessed with Brazilian music, I began asking my parents more about the country. My mom recalled stories of her teenage years of living in the country and the many friends she had back in the southern hemisphere. Over time, my parents introduced me to some of their Brazilian friends that also moved to America and cooked more and more traditional food for me. I learned about how to make feijoada and pão de queijo with my mom and listened to the band Os Secos e Molhados with my dad. I savored every moment when we would visit Rio de Janeiro and Aracaju along with some smaller cities like Niterói where my cousins lived. Although I was still far from being completely out of my shell to tell people about myself, my culture, or otherwise, as I went into high school, I opened myself up to the world a little bit more. My newfound appreciation and knowledge about the people I grew up with and my friends and family back in Brazil allowed me to grow some confidence in my own identity. I started speaking more Portuguese in public and playing bossa nova songs in front of my friends. However, the most crucial thing that changed was how I introduced myself to new people. I no longer waited weeks or months before explaining my Brazilian heritage. My culture and where my parents came from soon became one of the most important qualities that made me special.As I discussed with my friends about each other’s cultures and backgrounds, it no longer was the over-the-top bragging or seclusion I found in elementary school, but an appreciative view and comfortable conversation. I found that though I spent most of my life in America, I was still Brazilian and I was still connected to this culture in a way that made me feel included. America as a whole is a big melting pot of culture and people. Being different from others and sharing this culture is what made me finally feel like I fit in. Although you might be different from the person sitting next to you in one way or another, those differences are what make you a person. We all strive to fit in and find happiness in ourselves, however, true happiness is only found when one embraces their differences. Be it culture, opinions, music, or food tastes, we all have differences that we tend to not share with others for fear of feeling secluded and yet are so special and dear to us. So why not share them? 8:00 am. November 4, 2021.  I was feeling annoyed- I was missing formation, late to school, wouldn’t get to see my friends, and all to go to the doctor for a COVID test following another exposure.  This was literally going to be about the tenth time I had that awful ‘brain tickler’ of a test, so I wasn’t very happy.  My sister, Catie, also had to be tested due to exposure.  My dad took routine allergy shots and had arranged for us to be tested after he had his allergy shots.  While driving there, my grumpiness steadily increased.   We were missing school and this would just add to my homework load.  Plus, after a lot of recent dental and orthodontic work, I was tired of being poked and picked at. After getting the stick shoved up my nose, yet again, I watched as Catie had her test and Dad had his allergy shots. The nurse told us we needed to wait 15 minutes after the allergy shot.  Deciding to wait in the car,  I held the door for them and we headed outside.  Once inside the car, we buckled up, started the car, and were ready to go. 8:22 am. My sister and I were completely engrossed in our phones when my dad started shaking badly and making weird gagging noises. We didn’t think much of it or even really pay much attention to him.  Before you judge us, I suppose I should give you some context. My dad, Matthew Cottingham Carson Miles, is a very interesting person. He is very silly, loves to be the center of attention and tends to crack jokes- so weird noises coming from him is pretty normal!  Suddenly, his eyes rolled back into his head and he became sweaty instantly.  Wow, I thought- this is taking weird to a whole new level!  One of us touched his eye and nothing… no reaction.  HIs skin felt weirdly clammy, so we knew something was terribly wrong. I told Catie we needed to get help. Dad was unconscious and it wasn’t a joke. I opened the car door and ran inside the doctor’s office, and up to the attendant’s desk. I yelled that my dad was having some kind of attack and that we didn’t know what to do. As soon as the nurse saw the fear in my eyes and voice, she immediately called for help and ran outside to my dad. My sister and I were frozen at the spot looking at the nurse inspecting my dad. She started moving his car seat back as the other nurses and doctors were rushing outside. They circled around my dad, so I couldn’t see very well. I realized they were giving him CPR, jabbing him with something, and listening for his heartbeat. One of the nurses told my sister to call 911. Seeing the worry in the lady’s eyes, pure fear and dread instantly consumed by body and my brain. 8:30 am My dad was dead- I just knew it. Catie and I huddled together watching them work on my dad until she said that we should stop watching and took us to an area beside the clinic to wait for the ambulance.   I told her to call Mom and tell her what happened.  As Catie spoke to her, I kept thinking- Dad is dead. Dad is dead. That morning, I was so moody and grumpy and wasn’t nice to him.  Not remembering exactly what I said, I knew it wasn’t good and couldn’t bear the thought that the last moments spent with him, I treated him poorly.  I asked to talk with my mom.  Hearing the fear in her voice, I explained how badly I had treated my father and how I couldn’t live with it if the last words I spoke to dad were mean ones.  I broke down and I had never felt more scared. Not like’ starring in a horror movie’ scared, but genuinely scared of losing one of my favorite and most dearly beloved people and my life changing in a terrible way.8:33am The EMTs revived my dad after 70 compressions and 3 shots of epinephrine, but we did not know if his brain function was okay or if he was going to make it. My mom arrived and we followed the ambulance to the hospital.  While driving, Mom would pray one minute, cry another, and then say it must not be too bad if the ambulance was moving so slowly.  I know she was trying to keep us calm and positive.  I was so confused and in shock-one second my dad was fine, the other he was “dead”. I spent the rest of the day in a daze,  confused about what had happened and replaying the moments over and over in my head. The ‘what if’ questions kept popping up each time the sick feeling in my stomach went away even for a minute or two. 3:14pm We finally heard that my dad was going to be ok, that he had had an anaphylactic reaction to one of the allergy shots.  He was clinically dead for 3 minutes but the nurses revived him and the EMTs kept him stable. Many people told my sister and me that if it weren’t for us, my dad would be dead. Technically that is true, which was and still is very terrifying to think about. My dad’s life was never supposed to be in my dumb teenage hands but the other way around. 4:22 (Time you are reading this) Nov 11, 2022 Now I’ve had plenty of time to reflect on what happened those horrific minutes and the following hours and what I keep going back to is… What if my dad, my rock, my parent, my friend had died?  What if the last moments I had with him were the ones of me snapping at him and being rude just because I hate mornings? I’d like to think that if things had turned out differently, I wouldn’t have tortured myself with those thoughts and would have forgiven myself knowing how much I love my him.. But I know I am an overthinker-  I would never have forgotten it and would have been left with a lot of regrets. The most important lesson I take from this horrible experience is to never take the little things, people, or moments for granted. Every fun, silly, loving, sad, hurtful time is a time you will never get back. Every moment no matter how small it seems, it means to you or the other person is bigger than you might believe. If my dad had officially died that day, there would be time I would never get back with him or have with him  in the future. People can easily vanish from your life faster than you imagine. Now I’m not trying to give some scary warning, but just some advice to learn from me and this experience- be grateful for what you have and the people who love you and take care of you even when you don’t feel like it.  Why listen to me?  Because I lived it… minute by minute. 









