I am an optimist. I like to look on the bright side of things whenever I can. Whenever I am down I reset my thoughts by saying “it is what it is” and look for solutions. Now, this last year tended to be a very “It is what it is” kind of year, but I found that that is the exact thing I needed to say. With little control over our current situation I tried to make the best of the worst conditions. I worked to have fun and enjoy my junior year and make it my best year yet. And with my new attitude and new friends I had the time of my life.
To give you an idea of what was upcoming for me I will give you the general overview. I was going to C dorm as the prefect that year. For me, C was like a Found family comedy like Friends or How I Met your Mother in which the cast would always get into some sort of crazy scenario and end up closer because of it. Because of this I will set the cast and stage so you can see from my point of view. Coming with me were two sophomores (Ryan and Flint), another junior (Matthew), and our one senior,(Joey) who was in C dorm previous years.  We all lived in C and it was one of the older dorms that had lots of faults that weren’t present in the new dorms. But no matter its faults and issues, C dorm made up for it in character and memories. Now that you have the general overview, let's begin.
Despite having to go through quarantine before, I did not realize the extent to which quarantine meant in the dorms. Although I and the other Junior Matthew had cars, we were not allowed to leave at all. In fact, visits outside of our dorm became much more of a hassle because each house was declared its own “unit” and had to stick with their own. Now I am not saying that these rules were unjust, but they did make everything more - difficult. To start, our food situation wasn’t ideal. We would have food dropped off in our common room for us for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and the only constant was the poor quality food. We had the saddest chicken for breakfast and lunch most every day with equally awful dinners. But we knew that the quality wouldn’t change on its own so we took up the challenge to fix it. Armed with a hot plate and a simple Chef’s Knife, our master chef Flint would take control of the kitchen. At first it started by recooking the pork in the pork tacos and adding spices and other toppings, but it soon evolved to his specialty Chicken Sandwich. He would sear the chicken with a hot plate to give it a solid crust and he would make his own cane’s sauce. Combined with some toasted bread and smuggled vegetables, we are left with a pleasant sandwich.  We would do this for nearly every meal that we could fix as even though we couldn’t do much, we did what we could with what we were dealt. But not every meal could be fixed. Enter the enchiladas verdes. Although ideas popped up about a potential solution, we realized that some things can’t be fixed. And although nothing could directly fix it, we had prepared for this as we knew that somethings must start anew. Beforehand we went to the store and bought some steak, spinach, and other ingredients for our meal. With our three New York Strips in the freezer and hot plate on, with supervision, we started our feast. Accompanied by the delicate comedy of Southpark and by each other, we were happy. It didn’t matter that we were stuck or why we were stuck, we were happy.
This “it is what it is” outlook soon spread to every aspect of our lives. We realized that we may not have had our conventional resources, but we had what we had. We had a group of very different people with various backgrounds and personalities and a Computer and occasional trips to target. So we did what we could with what we had. After classes in online school, we would often go out to the hall and stretch so then we could sit down and watch Southpark or some trash show on the History network. When we had classes together we would go outside and sit with one another. No more Friday movie trips? No problem! We set up our own movie night watching all sorts of movies like Parasite and Bruno. We then added game night playing Dark Souls, Smash Bros., and Undertale. We then ventured into horror games like Dead Space 3 and DDLC. This then led to each of us leading our own journeys. Joey would bring us deep into the Chinese version of Youtube being our tour guide to all the inside jokes. Matthew would lead us on our dorm repair with his janky ideas of “fixed” like paper shadings for hallway lights and a shower curtain as a doorway. The aforementioned Flint would contrast my optimism with his pessimism, cook, and show us his favorite absurdist Australian comedians. And Ryan would sit in his room and do Math homework. Meanwhile I was there watching it all and “supervising” where needed and egging on when I saw the opportunities for a stable level of chaos. Hair cuts? Well we got a $40 razer from Target and five boys giving their ideas of what looks “right”. No more going out for events? Well we have two full water bottles, cardboard boxes, and a hallway so we made a crude one on one bowling game. Every problem we faced we kept our chin up and figured out a solution or workaround.
However, there is one problem I couldn’t fix. One Catastrophe that we can’t wait out. The Freeze. Through the night the snow gathered and gathered, and when we awoke it was piled up to amounts TMI hadn’t seen for some time. We had the privilege to see TMI under all that snow and it was amazing. My dorm all ventured out into the snow and we went as far as the lacrosse field. Although I complained of the temperature and my fingers freezing off for the whole time, I enjoyed it and thought it would be another memory dedicated to C Dorm. But when we got back, everything got worse. Our power went out and the temperature started going down. The apartment was below freezing and the common room was about 45 degrees. Although the option of going to a newer dorm was presented, we stuck together and bundled up in the common room watching a show on a laptop, weathering the storm. Spirits were still high despite the fact that temperature was low. We were dealing with our problems as well as we could while keeping a positive outlook but then everything came falling down, literally.
We soon got told to evacuate the building as a portion of one of the other old dorms had collapsed along with the ceramics building due to freezing pipes and water troubles. But no matter the issue, we had to get out. All I could take was my backpack with my laptop and a few sets of clothes. We evacuated to Ewing, one of the relatively newer dorms, and set down our stuff. Once we settled in and calmed down, we were ready to assess our situation. Suddenly, a pipe burst right outside our room in the hallway. I grabbed my bags once more as water was filling the room and moved to Abbot this time. To say my optimism was still at 100% would be lying. I was on the verge of freaking out, keeping my composure just till I was alone. But to my surprise, Flint, our local pessimist, was doing what I couldn't. He remembered our backup steak that we had marinating in the C Freezer and started cooking it outside. He knew that everything was finally going the pessimistic route where nothing went right, but he made the best of the situation. He was standing outside in the below freezing weather and handing out pieces of our rainy day meal to whoever needed it. And then I realized how important this mindset is. Maybe Flint was just coping in his own way and doing what he was good at and enjoyed, but more to my point he knew what would make anything better. He acted in a way that improved all of our situations even if it wasn’t much. He did what he could and that is more than I can say for myself. 
With the snow melting and being able to return to my home in South Texas I had time to think about the situation. Time passed and I returned to Abbot after Spring break. With Ewing fixed, the Ewing kids could go back to their dorm, but the same could not be said for C dorm. My precious dorm was unsalvageable with water problems being found in the main dorm and more urgent water concerns in Dr. Leport’s apartment. Of course I was devastated but I knew that nothing could be done to save the building. I saw that we had the same people and the same opportunities for goofing off but still it was hard to lose such an important figure for us. 
As of my last quarter of Junior year, I am still in Abbot. We have grieved and are forced to face that it is what it is. My dorm is now an empty lot and some of us even got to observe it’s demolition. Our community had moved to Abbot but it wasn’t the same and nothing we could do would make it the same. We had caught lightning in a bottle and now it was gone. We still honor the dorm with each of us taking our own keepsakes of C dorm. I claimed a non working clock with algebra instead of numbers and a fire alarm. Others took photos and their own piece of the building. I even printed some vinyl stickers that say “mini C” to put on our dorm. Despite all this, we have recovered what we could. We aren’t the same group, but when Dr. Leport comes for dinner, we all sit around as a Dorm once again to chat and banter. We started to pick ourselves up again and returned to our mindset of “it is what it is” and started doing what we could to stay together. We go get fastfood and tailgate. We eat together during lunch and during all of our outings. There is still a bond that can’t be broken by a freeze.
Now after all of this sorrow I recognize how important that attitude is. We could have gotten brought down by the pandemic and everyone that goes with it, the boredom, the loneliness, the sameness of everything, but we lasted. Our attitude of gratitude kept us upbeat and led to some of the best memories I have ever had. Poker nights while watching every single Twilight movie and the stupid mind games that came with it. Playing with the VR and cracking jokes while someone was cutting bullets in slow mo. Our showing of Parasite got too popular and had to be interrupted because too many of the other dormers were watching with us instead of going to community night. Even the times when I would have to climb a window or crouch down in a too small shower feel nostalgic because of my attitude. No matter the problem, our attitude made it better. We said “it is what it is” and got through everything and forged a bond that will last and be remembered. Whenever you face hardships, think back to what you can do to make your situation better. And if you need a starting point, I will tell you of the knowledge passed on to me by Joey, our oldest and wisest roommate. Putting dinosaur stickers on everything makes the world a bit better. Thank You