I am an optimist. I like to look on the bright side of things whenever I can. Whenever I am down I reset my thoughts by saying “it is what it is” and look for solutions. Now, this last year tended to be a very “It is what it is” kind of year, but I found that that is the exact thing I needed to say. With little control over our current situation I tried to make the best of the worst conditions. I worked to have fun and enjoy my junior year and make it my best year yet. And with my new attitude and new friends I had the time of my life. To give you an idea of what was upcoming for me I will give you the general overview. I was going to C dorm as the prefect that year. For me, C was like a Found family comedy like Friends or How I Met your Mother in which the cast would always get into some sort of crazy scenario and end up closer because of it. Because of this I will set the cast and stage so you can see from my point of view. Coming with me were two sophomores (Ryan and Flint), another junior (Matthew), and our one senior, (Joey) who was in C dorm previous years.  We all lived in C and it was one of the older dorms that had lots of faults that weren’t present in the new dorms. But no matter its faults and issues, C dorm made up for it in character and memories. Now that you have the general overview, let's begin. Despite having to go through quarantine before, I did not realize the extent to which quarantine meant in the dorms. Although I and the other Junior Matthew had cars, we were not allowed to leave at all. In fact, visits outside of our dorm became much more of a hassle because each house was declared its own “unit” and had to stick with their own. Now I am not saying that these rules were unjust, but they did make everything more - difficult. To start, our food situation wasn’t ideal. We would have food dropped off in our common room for us for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and the only constant was the poor quality food. We had the saddest chicken for breakfast and lunch most every day with equally awful dinners. But we knew that the quality wouldn’t change on its own so we took up the challenge to fix it. Armed with a hot plate and a simple Chef’s Knife, our master chef Flint would take control of the kitchen. At first it started by recooking the pork in the pork tacos and adding spices and other toppings, but it soon evolved to his specialty Chicken Sandwich. He would sear the chicken with a hot plate to give it a solid crust and he would make his own cane’s sauce. Combined with some toasted bread and smuggled vegetables, we are left with a pleasant sandwich.  We would do this for nearly every meal that we could fix as even though we couldn’t do much, we did what we could with what we were dealt. But not every meal could be fixed. Enter the enchiladas verdes. Although ideas popped up about a potential solution, we realized that some things can’t be fixed. And although nothing could directly fix it, we had prepared for this as we knew that somethings must start anew. Beforehand we went to the store and bought some steak, spinach, and other ingredients for our meal. With our three New York Strips in the freezer and hot plate on, with supervision, we started our feast. Accompanied by the delicate comedy of Southpark and by each other, we were happy. It didn’t matter that we were stuck or why we were stuck, we were happy. This “it is what it is” outlook soon spread to every aspect of our lives. We realized that we may not have had our conventional resources, but we had what we had. We had a group of very different people with various backgrounds and personalities and a Computer and occasional trips to target. So we did what we could with what we had. After classes in online school, we would often go out to the hall and stretch so then we could sit down and watch Southpark or some trash show on the History network. When we had classes together we would go outside and sit with one another. No more Friday movie trips? No problem! We set up our own movie night watching all sorts of movies like Parasite and Bruno. We then added game night playing Dark Souls, Smash Bros., and Undertale. We then ventured into horror games like Dead Space 3 and DDLC. This then led to each of us leading our own journeys. Joey would bring us deep into the Chinese version of Youtube being our tour guide to all the inside jokes. Matthew would lead us on our dorm repair with his janky ideas of “fixed” like paper shadings for hallway lights and a shower curtain as a doorway. The aforementioned Flint would contrast my optimism with his pessimism, cook, and show us his favorite absurdist Australian comedians. And Ryan would sit in his room and do Math homework. Meanwhile I was there watching it all and “supervising” where needed and egging on when I saw the opportunities for a stable level of chaos. Hair cuts? Well we got a $40 razer from Target and five boys giving their ideas of what looks “right”. No more going out for events? Well we have two full water bottles, cardboard boxes, and a hallway so we made a crude one on one bowling game. Every problem we faced we kept our chin up and figured out a solution or workaround. However, there is one problem I couldn’t fix. One Catastrophe that we can’t wait out. The Freeze. Through the night the snow gathered and gathered, and when we awoke it was piled up to amounts TMI hadn’t seen for some time. We had the privilege to see TMI under all that snow and it was amazing. My dorm all ventured out into the snow and we went as far as the lacrosse field. Although I complained of the temperature and my fingers freezing off for the whole time, I enjoyed it and thought it would be another memory dedicated to C Dorm. But when we got back, everything got worse. Our power went out and the temperature started going down. The apartment was below freezing and the common room was about 45 degrees. Although the option of going to a newer dorm was presented, we stuck together and bundled up in the common room watching a show on a laptop, weathering the storm. Spirits were still high despite the fact that temperature was low. We were dealing with our problems as well as we could while keeping a positive outlook but then everything came falling down, literally. We soon got told to evacuate the building as a portion of one of the other old dorms had collapsed along with the ceramics building due to freezing pipes and water troubles. But no matter the issue, we had to get out. All I could take was my backpack with my laptop and a few sets of clothes. We evacuated to Ewing, one of the relatively newer dorms, and set down our stuff. Once we settled in and calmed down, we were ready to assess our situation. Suddenly, a pipe burst right outside our room in the hallway. I grabbed my bags once more as water was filling the room and moved to Abbot this time. To say my optimism was still at 100% would be lying. I was on the verge of freaking out, keeping my composure just till I was alone. But to my surprise, Flint, our local pessimist, was doing what I couldn't. He remembered our backup steak that we had marinating in the C Freezer and started cooking it outside. He knew that everything was finally going the pessimistic route where nothing went right, but he made the best of the situation. He was standing outside in the below freezing weather and handing out pieces of our rainy day meal to whoever needed it. And then I realized how important this mindset is. Maybe Flint was just coping in his own way and doing what he was good at and enjoyed, but more to my point he knew what would make anything better. He acted in a way that improved all of our situations even if it wasn’t much. He did what he could and that is more than I can say for myself. With the snow melting and being able to return to my home in South Texas I had time to think about the situation. Time passed and I returned to Abbot after Spring break. With Ewing fixed, the Ewing kids could go back to their dorm, but the same could not be said for C dorm. My precious dorm was unsalvageable with water problems being found in the main dorm and more urgent water concerns in Dr. Leport’s apartment. Of course I was devastated but I knew that nothing could be done to save the building. I saw that we had the same people and the same opportunities for goofing off but still it was hard to lose such an important figure for us. As of my last quarter of Junior year, I am still in Abbot. We have grieved and are forced to face that it is what it is. My dorm is now an empty lot and some of us even got to observe it’s demolition. Our community had moved to Abbot but it wasn’t the same and nothing we could do would make it the same. We had caught lightning in a bottle and now it was gone. We still honor the dorm with each of us taking our own keepsakes of C dorm. I claimed a non working clock with algebra instead of numbers and a fire alarm. Others took photos and their own piece of the building. I even printed some vinyl stickers that say “mini C” to put on our dorm. Despite all this, we have recovered what we could. We aren’t the same group, but when Dr. Leport comes for dinner, we all sit around as a Dorm once again to chat and banter. We started to pick ourselves up again and returned to our mindset of “it is what it is” and started doing what we could to stay together. We go get fastfood and tailgate. We eat together during lunch and during all of our outings. There is still a bond that can’t be broken by a freeze. Now after all of this sorrow I recognize how important that attitude is. We could have gotten brought down by the pandemic and everyone that goes with it, the boredom, the loneliness, the sameness of everything, but we lasted. Our attitude of gratitude kept us upbeat and led to some of the best memories I have ever had. Poker nights while watching every single Twilight movie and the stupid mind games that came with it. Playing with the VR and cracking jokes while someone was cutting bullets in slow mo. Our showing of Parasite got too popular and had to be interrupted because too many of the other dormers were watching with us instead of going to community night. Even the times when I would have to climb a window or crouch down in a too small shower feel nostalgic because of my attitude. No matter the problem, our attitude made it better. We said “it is what it is” and got through everything and forged a bond that will last and be remembered. Whenever you face hardships, think back to what you can do to make your situation better. And if you need a starting point, I will tell you of the knowledge passed on to me by Joey, our oldest and wisest roommate. Putting dinosaur stickers on everything makes the world a bit better. Thank You.
Throughout my life, I have been given many different names. These include “little Kyle”, “the youngest Kyle”, “the last of the Kyles”, “the baby of the family”. I have even been called “pipsqueak”, a name first given to me by my aunt, but then so lovingly adopted by my oldest brother, more based on the fact that I am the shortest out of my siblings than the youngest, but a name that I have been referred to as nonetheless. The majority of my life has been based on my three older siblings. I have gone to the same schools as them, taken the same classes, played the same sports, and tried all of the same hobbies. This led me to being a very annoying little sister, which I have unfortunately always been aware of thanks to one of my brothers. For the most part though, my siblings have been very accepting of my constant desire to tag along and ask incessant questions, even when seeking their acceptance has led to major regret and quite a bit of crying. As a kid I would get scared very easily. That’s not to say that I don't anymore, but it is not nearly as bad as having nightmares about the movies Jaws and Gremlins for months after watching them. My sister was forced to deal with my constant paranoia before falling asleep every night during those periods considering we shared a bedroom for the majority of my life. However, I was always convinced that I would be able to make it through the same scary things as the rest of my family. Hence why when my parents brought up the idea of going to the haunted house, "The Nightmare on Elm Street," I attempted to convince everyone else of my bravery. Keep in mind, I was eight. There was no sign that I would be able to successfully make it through a haunted house. I could barely even handle playing "Call of Duty'' because I got startled by other players coming around a corner in front of me. Despite this, I had far too much faith in myself. My siblings knew better. They remembered my fear more clearly than I had, but I insisted that this time it would somehow be different. I am still unsure why anyone thought to even consider letting four children into a haunted house like that. Given that there are at least ratings on movies, I would have expected some sort of age limit, preferably one that was higher than eight. For some reason though, my parents caved in and bought the tickets. It was possibly thanks to what I would like to call my “youngest child charm,” also known as annoying my entire family and begging until my parents said okay. Throughout the time leading up to our trip, I continued to convince myself of how brave I was going to be. I rehearsed methods of how to get past each room involving remembering that each of the monsters was just a regular person determined to make their customers feel immensely uncomfortable, a truly wonderful job description. I had no idea what to expect from this experience though because the closest that I had come to a haunted house was the Phineas and Ferb Halloween special where they build a giant haunted house to cure Isabella’s hiccups. Needless to say, my expectations for how scary it would be were very low. There was no need to think about all of the times that I had failed to watch a semi-scary movie without covering my eyes or plugging my ears at certain points. Those were all two dimensional as well, which is completely different from an in-person experience that would definitely not be more immersive, and realistic, and terrifying. The point is that I am almost certain that I had subconsciously blocked any movie that gave me nightmares as a kid from my memory so as to convince myself that I would be prepared for what was to come. On the day that we were supposed to finally go to “The Nightmare on Elm Street” I was excited to be able to prove myself to my siblings. They could no longer make fun of me for getting frightened far too easily because I would have endured the same terrors as they had. But when the site of the attraction came into view, my confidence began to dwindle. From what I remember, the building towered over the crowds of people waiting in lines to meet their doom. Every crack and chip in the rickety, old home was illuminated by an ominous, red glow. The entrance was clouded by a thick fog, and as we moved closer I could hear the eerie music grow louder and louder in my ears along with my quickened heartbeat.  While we joined the line to venture inside, the building loomed before me. It threatened my new reputation that I was building. I could not let a measly haunted house take me down, so I stood as tall as my eight year old frame would allow and plastered a smile onto my face. As we approached the entrance, the realization of my mistake flooded into my head. My siblings knew better. I was completely unprepared, and yet I could not bring myself to admit my defeat just yet. I clutched my parents as any anxious child would do while entering a new mildly terrifying environment. It was dark. The scent of artificial fog filled my nostrils, and before I knew it, the sudden crashes and bangs coupled with seemingly ten foot tall monsters jumping towards me out of the shadows broke down every ounce of strength I had in me. I immediately began to shriek, and cry, and bury my face in my mom’s shirt to avoid moving forward. I am not  proud of that reaction, but I would personally say that it is completely justifiable considering my age at the time. The rest of the haunted house was a blur thanks to the pure fear that I was feeling, but I do remember my family trying to protect me from the actors that were simply doing their job as we hurried towards the exit. When we finally emerged into the street that we entered from, tears were streaming down my face. I had cut our experience there short, but no one seemed angry or disappointed. Rather, my siblings comforted me with the fact that nothing would be jumping out and grabbing at me for the rest of the night. I was assured that I was safe and would soon be back in our car, and eventually wrapped up in my bed a few feet from my sister. Before our night came to a close, we collectively decided that the best plan of action would be to stop at Baskin Robbins to help soothe the emotional damage. My face was still hot from embarrassment and fear while dragging my feet towards the case to browse my options, and yet, swept up in the endless flavor options, I momentarily forgot the horrors that I had just experienced. I tasted a couple delightful flavors before making my final decision.  I ate my ice cream slowly, both because I decided to use the tiny tasting spoon from earlier and because I still felt weighed down by the guilt that I was the main reason my siblings were forced to rush through the haunted house’s thrills. After all, they were able to predict the outcome before my parents had even bought the tickets, yet they put my feelings above their own. I won’t lie, the ice cream helped quite a bit. It usually does. However, my siblings also helped even though they could have easily ignored me for the rest of the night or blamed me for an unsatisfactory experience at their first real haunted house. When I look back past all of our complaining about each other, My siblings have spent quite a bit of time helping me when I asked for it. Some have been more useful and kind about it than others, but they each have their moments. They have dealt with my stubbornness when I don’t understand homework despite likely wanting to yell at me and leave me to struggle on my own. They’re all willing to answer my questions about past experiences in classes no matter how many times I go back to interrupt whatever they were doing. We do not talk with each other a lot, even when we are all home, but I appreciate the fact that they are all still willing to have conversations with me when I am struggling to figure out my plans. This takes a level of empathy that I feel needs to be included in my aspirations to be like all of them. The fact that we have all had so many of the same experiences means that they understand my feelings better than most others. I will always be “little Kyle” to those that knew my siblings before meeting me, but I do not mind this comparison nearly as much as I used to make it seem like I did. I still want to paint and draw as well as my sister. I still want to have as clear of an idea for my future as my oldest brother. I still want to be as strong as my other brother. They each have many admirable qualities that I have gotten the chance to observe as we have grown up, and I have essentially been able to build myself and my own character from their traits. With that idea, eventually I would like to take the empathy, respect, and confidence that they showed me at the “Nightmare on Elm Street” haunted house about a decade ago, and implement it into the way that I treat them and everyone else that I interact with, but I will definitely enjoy being the annoying little sister for a bit longer.
I was 13 years old when my father decided to walk out of my life. If I am being honest, he had left my family long before he physically walked out the door. You learn quickly when bad things like this happen, it is either learn to cope or decide to cave. When my father left I think I did both. Facing the music of my reality, there was a lot of crying and letting little things get to me. Luckily, I like roller coasters so this ride of emotion called “cold reality” was starting to hit home. In today’s world, “coping” is an often used buzzword but I don’t think most of us grasp the true meaning of “coping.”  For those who don’t know what coping is let me give you the dictionary definition:   “to deal effectively with something difficult.” True coping requires more than just “dealing” with it, you need to do it effectively and it became clear pretty quickly I didn’t understand that part of it. ​To “cope” with his leaving I turned to video games and sleeping. When I played games it took me to a different world, a world where I did not have to deal with the thoughts and feelings I had about my situation at hand. However, because of this, my grades reflected this unhealthy coping method. My grades were dropping and the mask I put on at school was starting to slip off. Sadly I didn’t make any changes and my future is affected because of my inability to realize that I was not really coping. Yes, video games are fun and made me feel better, but all it was doing was keeping me occupied until I turned the video games off and those thoughts and feelings I thought I was handling reared their ugly head again. It became clear I was only escaping what I needed to face. Another mechanism I thought was coping was just avoiding anything that had to do with my father. It seemed easier than trying to explain our strange and new family dynamic.  As terrible as it seemed for this to happen 3 days before Thanksgiving, I was kind of thankful it surrounded a holiday because I didn’t have to see anyone. I didn’t have to explain I wasn’t with my parents or why my mom was so sad or why I didn’t want to get out of bed.   Even now, anytime I have a conversation with him as the topic I get physically uncomfortable and I feel sick. I am a work in progress. Healthy coping is when there is a positive outcome and you have positive relationships. I put on a facade so I wouldn’t have to talk about it, to anyone. As it turns out, that wasn’t coping, that was avoidance.  I was struggling in school; I wasn’t progressing in the Corps; and I was separating myself from my friends.  Then we had a Pandemic.  Each of us has a “Covid” story.  Covid was in some way a great outlet for me because it allowed me to further isolate.  School as we knew it ended.  The world shut down but no one understood my world had already closed its borders.  School finally “resumed” virtually but Zoom classes were not my friend.  It turns out, even an introvert needs people. It was still easier for me to hide. I did not excel.  I failed to turn in assignments I had actually completed.  I took naps during lunch instead of eating and was frequently late for class.  At one point, one of my teachers finally realized something was off because I had failed to turn on my camera after being asked many times. I did not want to be seen.  Luckily, he held me accountable and I couldn’t hide anymore.  In hindsight, it was a gift, but I still failed to communicate my circumstances. I knew I wasn’t the only person at TMI to experience divorce.  Although, I can say, my circumstances were like a script for a tragic movie.  While other kids of divorce were juggling life and seeing parents on alternate weekends, and how to navigate holidays, I was trying to steer my way through my father calling the police because I did not want to go with him. There still wasn’t a clear gauge of how to cope. There’s not enough time to explain everything my mom and I endured but it seemed too far surpass what the majority of my peers faced with divorce. At one point my mom finally said, “Everyone has struggles,” and if you know my mom, it’s easy to envision what that sounded like.  It wasn’t minimizing my sadness but it reminded me that I wasn’t alone.  My circumstances may have been unique but struggling wasn’t specific to me.  There it was again, the theme:  cope or cave.  Caving obviously wasn’t working. That summer I read a book by Mark Manson with a questionable title but a perfect message:  “Don’t hope for a life without problems…There’s no such thing. Instead, hope for a life full of good problems.” ​My problem still wasn’t “good” but it was manageable.  Somewhere in the midst of all my struggles, my life began to change into something positive.  My mom met a man who made us a family again.  I call him “Step-Doug.”  My world changed from, “I was 13 when my father walked out of my life,” to “I was 14 when I met my dad.” Step-Doug said to me early on, “Stick with me kid, I’ll give you a better life.”  Sure, I still had problems but they were better problems. ​There is a lot I learned from my situation and how we really need to help others and cope.  Firstly, don’t assume you know someone’s narrative.  Not everyone knows how to express their trauma or how to cope with it.  For those that thought I was failing, every day I made it to school, I had already climbed out of a hole to get here.   In the words of Mark Manson, “You can’t be an important and life-changing presence for some people without also being a joke and an embarrassment to others.” I may have seemed like the latter to some but I would eventually find myself again.  And if something seems off with someone, simply ask, “are you ok?,” because it could make a world of difference. Coping is to “deal effectively with something difficult.”  I am still learning how to put this into action but each day is a new opportunity.  We are all artists of our own stress and anxiety and sometimes the piece we keep picking up we’re simply putting in the wrong place.  I learned recently that the motto and my mom’s family crest is:  Dum Spiro Spero which means, “while I breathe I hope.”  Never give up hope. 
Life is like a beast, always moving, changing, and growing, but it will devour you if you don’t keep up with it. An interpretation of Charles Darwin once said, “It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is most adaptable to change.” Let me say that again, it is not the strongest or smartest who survive, but those who can adapt.  We all have this in common, at some point we will all have to face adversity in some form or another. In this interpretation, survivors don’t power through it or outthink it, they adapt to it to win.  We all wish there was some way to hit the pause button on life and maybe even a cheat code around the hardest parts, but they don’t exist. There is no way to stop life from going forward, no matter what someone may go through, we as people need to be able to adapt to survive. As you can probably guess, lacrosse has taught me a lot about life. If you do not know, lacrosse is a full-contact sport that requires you to drive through the defenders to get a goal.  Sometimes you dodge, sometimes you dive, and most times you get hit.  Everyone who has played lacrosse with me knows that I am known for getting hit. Hit pretty hard in fact. So hard, they gave me a nickname: Gumby. That name is not because I get hit hard though.  It’s because no matter how hard, I still get up. I do this because what is the point of staying on the ground? If I have not suffered a severe injury, why stay down?
Oftentimes, I believe myself to be one of the unluckiest people on Earth. While this isn’t uncommon for your average teenager, I happen to have this feeling quite frequently. As a control freak, I keep my grip on reality by attempting to limit negative outcomes while maximizing positive ones. To me, the idea of something being entirely out of my control is unnerving and frustrating. Unfortunately, no one can control everything because life inherently involves luck and chance. Often, I feel as if I always pull the short straw, and as I’ve grown, my own circumstances have continued to make life an increasingly risky game. But if given the opportunity to gain complete control over my life, I wouldn’t take it because over the past seven years, my life’s unlucky and uncontrollable situations have undoubtedly shaped me into a better person. If you don’t know me personally, I have a very tragic talent for being extremely clumsy. For me, the seemingly simple act of walking often leads to bruises and scratches. As an athlete, clumsiness-- along with a strong competitive nature-- opens up a multitude of opportunities for broken bones, twisted ankles, and pulled muscles. (As you can see right here with my broken wrist so being on this stage with stairs right in front of me is extremely scary). 
I distinctly remember waking up to the sound of my alarm blaring to an all too familiar sound. I slammed the top of the alarm as I had every morning before, but I knew this morning was different. Up until that moment the true reality of what I had gotten myself into had not truly settled in, the days and months leading up to me coming to TMI had seemed more like preparation for a summer camp than moving into a boarding school, but in that moment staring at my ceiling as my roommate stirred across the room, everything suddenly hit me at once. The only thing left in my mind was the thought, “I messed up really bad this time”.  School had been one of the places I despised most in the world, and now I had gotten myself stuck living there for the rest of the year. The strenuous series of events that ended up with me standing here today all started 2 years before I first came to TMI. 
It is my opinion that any chapel talk that hopes to stick into the tiktok length attention span of the average TMI students brain, needs to clearly state what it's about very early on in the talk while all the listeners are still awake.To put it bluntly I want to talk about time, specifically how we handle it with our habits and how making tiny changes now can change the trajectory of your whole life. Now, the genesis of this talk is a TMI 2015 convocation day video, which was in fact the first glimpse I had into TMI life before I was a student, and it got me thinking about time. Every single person in that video, with the exception of some of our ancient faculty and staff, is no longer ats TMI .when that video was filmed however they were just students at TMI, same as me and you however the main difference between them and you currently is that their time as a highschool school student, is over, its finished for them, but for you, its not, you still have time left here, whether that be years or 77 days exactly including today.
Many people walk through life in a cognitive slumber, blindly following the norms attached to their identity. Each habit is like a suggestion: “Hey, maybe this is who I am.” If you finish a book, then perhaps you are the type of person who likes reading. If you go to the gym, then perhaps you are the type of person who likes exercise. If you practice playing the guitar, perhaps you are the type of person who likes music. Every action you take is a vote for the type of person you wish to become. No single instance will transform your beliefs, but as the votes build up, so does the evidence of your new identity. Small habits can make a meaningful difference by providing evidence of a new identity. And if a change is meaningful, it actually is big. That’s the paradox of making small improvements. Putting this all together, you can see that habits are the path to changing your identity. The most practical way to change who you are is to change what you do. Each time you write a page, you are a writer. Each time you practice the violin, you are a musician. Each time you start a workout, you are an athlete. Each time you encourage your cadets, you are a leader. Each habit not only gets results but also teaches you something far more important: to trust yourself. 
Every day from kindergarten to 8th grade, we would have a daily chapel to begin every school day. These chapel days would be led by the school’s headmaster, Mr. Webster. Mr. Webster is not only one of the best speakers I have ever heard, not only one of the best role models ever, but he is one of the best people I have ever met. He is the example of a perfect, loving person. Mr. Webster, also known as El Guapo, is a tall man who loves wearing his suits with blue jeans. He is someone who made an impact on everyone. Ask anyone who knows him, and they will say how much they love him. Even when I went to my sister’s chapel talk back in 2015, I was asked many times by TMI faculty about Mr. Webster. Everyone knows him because he just is so great. Everyday during chapel, he would show a clip of a movie, and then he would talk about a life lesson that was shown in that movie. He would talk about laziness or how to use our values to bring up a better life for ourselves. There are infinitely many quotes he had that are beautiful, however, my favorite one is “Let love and honesty rule your life.
Not only that, but I have been since I was five years old. Growing up in a house that primarily spoke Arabic and French, those languages came to me naturally. Altering every word, creating new words, and switching to different languages in one sentence is commonplace in my household. My mom and dad were both born in Lebanon, a small country located in the Middle East. My mom is fully Lebanese, and my father is half French and half Armenian. Growing up in Lebanon, French and Arabic were their first two languages, so there was no doubt that their two children would eventually learn them too. They both came here as young adults, and although adjustment was difficult, they seemed totally fine with their dichotomous world: American outside the house and something different at home. They appeared at ease with different foods, different music, and even different humor, matching their surroundings at any moment. They had friends that were like them and other, more traditional Americans, for lack of better words. Early in my life, I never realized this complexity. It was perfectly normal for me to watch Spongebob and Sesame Street in English while simultaneously speaking in Arabic or French to my mother. At times, I would also watch cartoons or acrobats on the French satellite channel TV5. And to be quite honest, I thought this is what everyone else did too. I was in, what I would call, an ethnic enclave. It was the same for my brother. I enjoyed my Lebanese and French dishes cooked by my mom while also occasionally enjoying a hot dog, a burger, or mac and cheese. I didn’t have much American influence at home, but I never felt out of place. I never seemed to question who and where I was and how I got here. As I started school, things got more complicated.
“All in”, I announced, as an over-hyped me pushed my dignity along with every single one of my chips into the center of the poker table. I stared right into Chris Goldsbury’s clear blue eyes as I shoved everything into the pot, hoping to catch the slightest glimpse of stress or uncertainty in his face gained from my calling his bet. To my horror, he just aimed his usual friendly smile back at me. It was only him and I left in the hand, and we had both put it all on the line. It was the final hand of the night, and I had chosen to leave my fate in the hands of luck. Lucky for me, I had been having no shortage of it that night. Just five minutes prior to going all in, I was balling. I felt like I had luck on my side and was on top of the world as I had been winning so much that I was ready to cash in my chips and go buy both Boardwalk and Park Place.
I was never a perfect student, I got A’s on occasion but I was mostly a B student which meant I was average, mediocre, and unremarkable. My academics were not particularly noteworthy or impressive. I would go to school and constantly look for distractions to get me out of class. I would talk with my friends, ask to go to the restroom, or even enjoy the occasional fire drill just to skip that little bit of class. Distractions gave me the ability to forget that I was just an average student. As a result of my lack of focus and dedication to my studies, I often found myself behind in class becoming below average. I would struggle to keep up with the material, and my grades would suffer as a result. I would try to make up for it by studying harder and putting in more effort, but it was always an uphill battle. I was never able to fully catch up, and I would always end up feeling lost, frustrated, and discouraged, but then we hit this one unit in science class - life cycles. This topic caught my interest and made me think. For the first time, I found myself looking forward to going to class. I was fascinated by the way that different organisms developed and changed over time. 
"Why am I doing this?" That was a question I had in mind ever since middle school. Korea’s education system makes everyone fixate on grades and getting into those top 3 colleges, resulting in the craze of after school academies trapping students often past midnight every single day. During my time in Korea, where I spent most of my life, I didn’t know the purpose of me as a person. I felt like I was just wasting my time doing homework, for just some quiz, and a rank that didn't mean much. Summer of 2019, I decided, I needed a break from this cycle. My parents and I decided to look into studying abroad, which was always in the back of my father’s mind. When we found TMI, we fell in love. It was a small private school, away from the city, surrounded by nature. As I was looking for something completely different from my experience in Korea, it was perfect. Stereotypical statement from immigrants, but for me, America really was the land of opportunities. It was a second chance in life where I was given a blank canvas and was able to make that painting whatever I wanted it to be. However, this new painting I had to do was very far from home, and very far from what I was used to. Living by myself, alone in the dorms was probably the biggest change other than the language & cultural barrier I experienced. 
Being one of the only teenagers there, he even gave me a position as altar server. Also with my late grandfather being a very devoted catholic, I felt at home connecting to god, and connecting to my family through him. By reconnecting with religion and some Korean food, I found myself recharging every time I went to church. I also had my closest friends, Jeongho and Matthew. We lived together for three years, and they are like my brothers now. Although we often argued about dumb stuff like why you shouldn’t have rice with chopsticks, we had a lot of fun together. I remember the three of us going to cars and coffee on saturday mornings, or the regular trips to Target to buy useless stuff. I’m grateful for these guys, always being by my side throughout the years. And on top of that, I was lucky enough to have Major Claburn and his family to let me stay at their house over one of the breaks. Mrs.Claburn treated me like her own son, and would invite me over for dinner often. Julia and William were like the annoying siblings I never had, and Major, although not too talkative, cooked me the best steak dinners with his grill setup. They provided me with the warmth of family, and some warm and delicious t-bone steaks. Realizing the support of all these people around me, I was able to dust myself off and pull myself back together. This time I decided, I’ll set achievable goals for myself, and each time I complete those, I'd set new goals that were, again, easily achievable. I started by taking cold showers everyday, cut down on caffeine and sweets, and worked out more often. 
just how lucky I am, I also understood how important it would be to remember that very moment. This realization contributed to my personal growth and changed how I understand my place in this world. Without it, I might have gone through life assuming that all I was given is normal. I might not have fully appreciated how fortunate I am to have something as simple as a good family and a good group of friends, and I may never have realized how easy it is to take things for granted–I am admittedly still occasionally guilty of it to this day. Recognizing one’s privilege is a difficult thing to do. But it has changed the way I approach all aspects of my life. This can take the form of small actions such as picking up a random piece of trash or telling someone I like their outfit, or it can be in bigger sentiments such as dedicating my weekend to help raise funds to support the education of children in underprivileged countries. And most importantly it has taught me to look at the world through a lens of unconditional gratitude. By doing these sorts of things, I hope my path through this world will be defined by kindness, respect, and appreciation for the blessings I have been given. TMI, I challenge you to do the same. As our chaplain, Father Ben, preaches, there is not enough room in our hearts for both misery and gratitude, and while I understand it is easy to be defeated by all of the challenges life throws your way, make sure you are fighting to stay positive and appreciate the blessing you have been given as well as spreading them to those who need it. This does not mean sacrificing your weekend to go make food for the homeless. It can be a text to a friend who is struggling in school. It can be a thank you to your parents for all they have done. It can also be a simple prayer in your mind thanking God for your health and happiness. Thank you and Happy Birthday to my Chapel Talk Coach Mr. Ridewood.
I am one of 6 kids, growing up everything felt like a competition. Who was the best behaved? Who helped the most around the house? Who was the best at mario party? Who was the best at singing? It all felt like one massive triathlon, with the grand prize being attention. I quickly ruled myself out of most of those competitions, but the one thing I decided I could stand my ground in was the smart competition, so I chose that one to focus my energy on. I didn’t care that I wasn’t the most athletic in my family, or the funniest, or that I wasn’t the best at singing. I cared about the “who was the smartest” competition.
“Not all that COUNTS can be COUNTED, -and not all that can be COUNTED, -COUNTS” Originally I had Two chapel talks, and Fr. Ben said “You only have ONE talk” so I had to make it count. I’m Going to tell you a couple of stories that have taught me what really counts. Picture this. - It's the first day of high school and I am brand new to TMI. I have my new uniform on, with some fresh khaki shorts and I am nervous yet excited to see what TMI is all about. My parents dropped me off at the flag circle and I headed into the gym for a meet and greet for new families and students.
Waking up to the sound of birds with the sun shining through the trees suddenly turns into the sound of construction and massive buildings blocking the light and casting a gloomy shadow into my room. The mountain I grew up on where you could drive for miles only seeing nature suddenly became driving through traffic with skyscrapers surrounding the view. For most of my life I grew up in Waynesville, North Carolina. It was a town where there wasn't much to go and do,  but there was a lot to see. 
I spent day after day doing what I used to look forward to: resting with my head on a pillow. I didn’t realize how bad this was at the time, though. However, my mom used her mother's instinct and saw this much more apparently than I did. She informed our relatives of our situation, and my aunt drove down from Dallas despite her and my uncle’s upcoming plan: a hiking trip to Utah With both my mom and aunt having a mother’s instinct, they made an arrangement so my twin sister and I could join my aunt and uncle on this unexpected getaway. 
As I scanned through images of Zion National Park on my phone, I couldn’t help but have an ounce of dread as I imagined climbing rocks in the heat for days on end. I was at a place in which sleeping seemed the only suitable thing to do. But of course, I was excited and grateful for this trip. I was also full of anticipation. Having a mom who plans trips a year in advance, the spontaneity of it all was a completely new experience. 
If you were to join a Lacrosse team, what number would you choose to put on the back of your jersey? Perhaps your lucky number or the number of a famous athlete you admire? Maybe the number in your mind has a personal connection to you or a story behind it. I know the number 25 is near to my heart because it's the number that I have worn while I have played lacrosse at TMI. It is the number that I won a State Championship in and the  number I have worn while making long-lasting friendships and memories that will last forever. 
My favorite song lyrics come from a well-known Brazilian Bossa, Desde Que o Samba é Samba by Gilberto Gil and Caetano Veloso. The lyrics in Portuguese “Solidão apavora. Tudo demorando em ser tão ruim. Mas alguma coisa acontece no quando agora em mim. Cantando eu mando a tristeza embora.” For those who don’t understand Portuguese, these song lyrics approximately translate to: “The loneliness terrifies; The worst is yet to come; But something presently happens in me; By singing, I send the sadness away”.
Rome was not built in a day, and neither is any civilization. Humankind, or Homo Sapiens, or Cro Magnons, or whatever you would like to call us, have been around for about sixty-thousand years. We started out as what we might refer to as “cavemen”, but, slowly but surely, over the course of sixty-thousand years, managed to invent vaccines and supercomputers, master both sea and sky, and spread ourselves and our parking lots over nearly every corner of the Earth. So the question, then, is how? What exactly is it that turned a bunch of primates in a cave into a bunch of primates in a Whataburger parking lot? How did we get here? 
Armed with a hot plate and a simple Chef’s Knife, our master chef Flint would take control of the kitchen. At first it started by recooking the pork in the pork tacos and adding spices and other toppings, but it soon evolved to his specialty Chicken Sandwich. He would sear the chicken with a hot plate to give it a solid crust and he would make his own cane’s sauce. Combined with some toasted bread and smuggled vegetables, we are left with a pleasant sandwich.  We would do this for nearly every meal that we could fix as even though we couldn’t do much, we did what we could with what we were dealt. But not every meal could be fixed. Enter the enchiladas verdes. Although ideas popped up about a potential solution, we realized that some things can’t be fixed. And although nothing could directly fix it, we had prepared for this as we knew that somethings must start anew. Beforehand we went to the store and bought some steak, spinach, and other ingredients for our meal. With our three New York Strips in the freezer and hot plate on, with supervision, we started our feast. Accompanied by the delicate comedy of Southpark and by each other, we were happy.
It was possibly thanks to what I would like to call my “youngest child charm,” also known as annoying my entire family and begging until my parents said okay. Throughout the time leading up to our trip, I continued to convince myself of how brave I was going to be. I rehearsed methods of how to get past each room involving remembering that each of the monsters was just a regular person determined to make their customers feel immensely uncomfortable, a truly wonderful job description. I had no idea what to expect from this experience though because the closest that I had come to a haunted house was the Phineas and Ferb Halloween special where they build a giant haunted house to cure Isabella’s hiccups. Needless to say, my expectations for how scary it would be were very low. There was no need to think about all of the times that I had failed to watch a semi-scary movie without covering my eyes or plugging my ears at certain points.
It was possibly thanks to what I would like to call my “youngest child charm,” also known as annoying my entire family and begging until my parents said okay. Throughout the time leading up to our trip, I continued to convince myself of how brave I was going to be. I rehearsed methods of how to get past each room involving remembering that each of the monsters was just a regular person determined to make their customers feel immensely uncomfortable, a truly wonderful job description. I had no idea what to expect from this experience though because the closest that I had come to a haunted house was the Phineas and Ferb Halloween special where they build a giant haunted house to cure Isabella’s hiccups. Needless to say, my expectations for how scary it would be were very low. There was no need to think about all of the times that I had failed to watch a semi-scary movie without covering my eyes or plugging my ears at certain points.